<?xml version="1.0"?>
<chronology id="ME.CHRON" id-root="me" original-filename="unknown" region="CASEE" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>Chronology</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Montenegro</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Chronology</alt-heading>
     <chron-list>
          <chron-entry from-date="-0168-01-01" to-date="-0168-12-31">
               <chron-head>
        168 
        <sc>bce</sc>
               </chron-head>
               <chron-text>Illyria (which included modern-day Montenegro) was annexed by the Roman Empire.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="0395-01-01" to-date="0395-12-31">
               <chron-head>
        395 
        <sc>ce</sc>
               </chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following a division of the administration of the Roman Empire, Illyria was ruled by the Eastern Roman (Byzantine’) Emperor in Constantinople (İstanbul, Turkey—now known as Türkiye).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="0400-01-01" to-date="0499-12-31">
               <chron-head>5th century</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Southern Slav peoples began to move from Pannonia into Illyria and the Balkans.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="0863-01-01" to-date="0863-12-31">
               <chron-head>863</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The missionary activity of the Byzantine brothers, SS Constantine (Cyril) and Methodius, led to the conversion of the Southern Slavs to Eastern Orthodox Christianity.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="" from-date="1077-01-01" to-date="1077-12-31">
               <chron-head>1077</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Pope Gregory VII recognized the dukedom of Duklja (in the south-east of present-day Montenegro) as an independent state, acknowledging King Mihailo (of the Vojislavljević dynasty) as its monarch. Duklja later became known as Zeta.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1169-01-01" to-date="1169-12-31">
               <chron-head>1166</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Stefan I Nemanja became ruler of Raška; he established control over the territories of neighbouring Serb states, including Zeta, and unified them into a single state.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1371-01-01" to-date="1371-12-31">
               <chron-head>1371</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The principality of Zeta gained independence.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1459-01-01" to-date="1483-12-31">
               <chron-head>1459-83</chron-head>
               <chron-text>As the Ottomans incorporated Serbia into their Empire, Zeta maintained semi-independence.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1516-01-01" to-date="1516-12-31">
               <chron-head>1516</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Prince Đurađ Crnojević abdicated in favour of Archbishop Vavil, who placed Montenegro, as Zeta had become known, under the rule of the Prince-Bishop (Vladika) of Cetinje.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1697-01-01" to-date="1697-12-31">
               <chron-head>1697</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Petrović-Njegoš family acceded to the position of Vladika, reigning over the principality until 1918.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1851-01-01" to-date="1851-12-31">
               <chron-head>1851</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Danilo II became Vladika. He renounced the title, and the episcopacy, in the next year, marrying and reigning as Prince until his assassination in 1860.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1878-07-01" to-date="1878-07-31">
               <chron-head>July 1878</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Montenegro’s independence was confirmed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1910-01-01" to-date="1910-12-31">
               <chron-head>1910</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Nikola I, nephew of Danilo II, proclaimed himself King of Montenegro.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1912-10-01" to-date="19122-10-31">
               <chron-head>October 1912</chron-head>
               <chron-text>King Nikola I declared war on the Ottoman Empire. Greece, Bulgaria and Serbia entered the war in alliance with Montenegro.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1913-05-01" to-date="1913-05-31">
               <chron-head>May 1913</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Peace of London concluded the First Balkan War, in which a league of Bulgaria, Greece, Montenegro and Serbia succeeded in taking the former European provinces of the Ottoman Empire (Albania, Macedonia and Thrace).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1913-06-01" to-date="1913-06-30">
               <chron-head>June 1913</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Bulgaria attacked Serbia, which was supported by Greece, Montenegro, Romania and the Turks.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1913-08-01" to-date="1913-08-31">
               <chron-head>August 1913</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Peace of Bucharest concluded the Second Balkan War; the territory of Sandžak was divided between Serbia and Montenegro.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1916-01-01" to-date="1916-12-31">
               <chron-head>1916</chron-head>
               <chron-text>During the First World War, Austro-Hungarian troops invaded Montenegro.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1917-07-01" to-date="1917-07-31">
               <chron-head>July 1917</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Serbia and the other Southern Slavs (excluding the Bulgarians) declared their intention to form a unitary state, under the Serbian monarchy.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="" from-date="1918-11-01" to-date="1918-11-30">
               <chron-head>November 1918</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Grand National Assembly in Podgorica decided that Montenegro would depose King Nikola I and unite with the Kingdom of Serbia, joining the new Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes on 1 December. An uprising by pro-independence Montenegrins followed, which was finally suppressed in 1924. The country was renamed Yugoslavia in 1929.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1941-04-01" to-date="1941-04-30">
               <chron-head>April 1941</chron-head>
               <chron-text>After the partition of Yugoslavia by Nazi Germany and its allies during the Second World War, Montenegro came under Italian military occupation. Parts of the territory were directly annexed by Italy, whereas other regions joined Italian-dominated Albania. In 1943 German replaced Italian military occupation, after Italy’s surrender.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1943-11-29">
               <chron-head>29 November 1943</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In the Bosnian town of Jajce, following fierce resistance and civil conflict with the royalist Četniks (Yugoslav Army of the Fatherland) of western Serbia and with the fascist Croatian Ustaša regime, the Partisans (National Liberation Army), led by the communist, Gen. (later Marshal) Josip Broz (Tito), proclaimed their own government for the areas (mainly in Bosnia, Croatia and Montenegro) under Partisan control.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1945-11-29">
               <chron-head>29 November 1945</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following elections for a Provisional Assembly, the Federative People’s Republic of Yugoslavia was proclaimed, with Tito as Prime Minister.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1946-01-01" to-date="1946-01-31">
               <chron-head>January 1946</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A Constitution, establishing a federation of six republics and two autonomous regions, was adopted. In July Titograd, as Podgorica had been renamed, became the capital of Montenegro.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1963-04-01" to-date="1963-04-30">
               <chron-head>April 1963</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Constitution changed the country’s name to the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1980-05-04">
               <chron-head>4 May 1980</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Tito died; his responsibilities were transferred to a collective leadership.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1990-12-16">
               <chron-head>9 December 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In elections to the Montenegrin Assembly, the ruling Savez Komunista Crne Gore (SKCG—Alliance of Communists of Montenegro) won 83 of the 125 seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1990-12-23">
               <chron-head>23 December 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Momir Bulatović of the SKCG was elected republican President.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-02-15">
               <chron-head>15 February 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Bulatović appointed another SKCG member, Milo Đukanović, to head the republican Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-10-18">
               <chron-head>18 October 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>As other republics began the process of dissociation from Yugoslavia, Montenegro adopted a declaration of state sovereignty.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1992-01-10">
               <chron-head>10 January 1992</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Sanctions, imposed on Montenegro and Serbia by the European Community (EC, now European Union—EU) in 1991, following conflict with secessionists in Slovenia and Croatia, were lifted from Montenegro.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1992-01-15">
               <chron-head>15 January 1992</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Montenegrin Constitution was amended in order to comply with EC criteria for recognition.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1992-03-01">
               <chron-head>1 March 1992</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a referendum (with a participation rate of 66%), 96.0% of Montenegrins voted in favour of remaining in a federation with Serbia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1992-04-27">
               <chron-head>27 April 1992</chron-head>
               <chron-text>With the adoption of a new Constitution, a Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, comprising the two republics of Montenegro and Serbia was created.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1992-10-12">
               <chron-head>12 October 1992</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Montenegrin Constitution was adopted.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1993-01-10">
               <chron-head>10 January 1993</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Bulatović was re-elected President of Montenegro.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1997-06-23">
               <chron-head>23 June 1997</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Demokratska Partija Socijalista Crne Gore (DPS—Democratic Party of Socialists of Montenegro—as the SKCG had renamed itself) voted to support the candidacy of the President of Serbia, Slobodan Milošević, for the Yugoslav presidency, but rejected proposals for direct elections to the post, fearing a reduction of Montenegrin influence. The Federal Assembly elected Milošević President of Yugoslavia in July.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1997-10-05">
               <chron-head>5 and 19 October 1997</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Đukanović was elected President of Montenegro, narrowly defeating Bulatović.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1998-01-15">
               <chron-head>15 January 1998</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Đukanović was inaugurated as President of Montenegro. Following protests by the supporters of Bulatović, the Yugoslav premier, Rade Kontić, brokered an agreement providing for early legislative elections and the installation of a transitional Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1998-05-19">
               <chron-head>19 May 1998</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Milošević appointed Bulatović as Yugoslav premier, after Kontić’s Government lost a confidence vote; Đukanović immediately declared the new administration to be illegal.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1998-05-31">
               <chron-head>31 May 1998</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In elections to an enlarged, 78-seat Montenegrin Assembly, an alliance led by the DPS, Da Živimo Bolje (For a Better Life), secured an outright majority (42 seats); Bulatović’s Socijalistička Narodna Partija Crne Gore (SNP—Socialist People’s Party of Montenegro) won 29 seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1998-06-17">
               <chron-head>17 June 1998</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Montenegrin Assembly withdrew all of Montenegro’s delegates to the upper Chamber of Republics in the Federal Assembly and replaced them with delegates loyal to Đukanović, to prevent Milošević from commanding the two-thirds’ majority necessary for constitutional amendments.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1998-07-16">
               <chron-head>16 July 1998</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Montenegrin Government was appointed. It was led by Filip Vujanović and comprised representatives of the DPS, the Narodna Stranka Crne Gore (People’s Party of Montenegro) and the Socijaldemokratska Partija Crne Gore (SDP—Social Democratic Party of Montenegro).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1999-03-01" to-date="1999-06-30">
               <chron-head>March-June 1999</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Escalating civil conflict in the Serbian province of Kosovo, the population of which was predominantly Albanian, led to an aerial bombardment of Yugoslavia, including Montenegro, by forces of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). Montenegro refused to recognize the Federal Government's declaration of a state of war, and in April Đukanović refused to comply with Milošević’s order to place Montenegrin security forces under federal command.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1999-08-05">
               <chron-head>5 August 1999</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Montenegrin Government drafted a proposal to abolish the federation and replace it with a looser association, and announced that a referendum on Montenegrin independence would be held if Milošević failed to agree to the demands.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1999-11-02">
               <chron-head>2 November 1999</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Montenegro adopted the German Deutsche Mark as its official currency. Alongside Germany, Montenegro adopted the European common currency, the euro, in January 2002.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2000-10-18">
               <chron-head>18 October 2000</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following the inauguration of Vojislav Koštunica as President of Yugoslavia earlier in the month, the Montenegrin Government announced that it remained committed to independence.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2001-04-22">
               <chron-head>22 April 2001</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Elections to the Montenegrin Assembly took place. The pro-independence alliance led by Đukanović, Pobjeda je Crne Gore (Victory Belongs to Montenegro), secured 36 of the 77 seats in the legislature, narrowly defeating Bulatović’s anti-independence alliance, Zajedno za Jugoslavija (Together for Yugoslavia), with 33 seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2002-03-14">
               <chron-head>14 March 2002</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The government leaders of Yugoslavia and its two constituent republics signed a framework agreement, providing for its reconstitution as a joint state, the State Union of Serbia and Montenegro.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2002-04-19">
               <chron-head>19 April 2002</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Vujanović resigned as Prime Minister, after four pro-independence ministers withdrew from his Government in protest at the Montenegrin Assembly’s approval of the agreement on a state union.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2002-07-19">
               <chron-head>19 July 2002</chron-head>
               <chron-text>After Vujanović failed to secure majority support for a new government, the Montenegrin Assembly was dissolved.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2002-10-20">
               <chron-head>20 October 2002</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At elections to the Montenegrin Assembly, Đukanović’s pro-independence coalition, the Demokratska Lista za Evropsku Crnu Goru (Democratic List for a European Montenegro), secured 39 of the 75 seats, with the SNP-led Zajedno za Promjene (Together For Change) alliance, which opposed the creation of a looser union with Serbia, obtaining 30 seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2002-12-22">
               <chron-head>22 December 2002</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The presidential election in Montenegro was invalidated by a participation level of 45.9%, following a boycott organized by the principal opposition parties; Vujanović had secured 83.7% of votes cast.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2003-01-08">
               <chron-head>8 January 2003</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Montenegrin Assembly approved a new Government, headed by Đukanović.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2003-01-29">
               <chron-head>29 January 2003</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Montenegrin Assembly approved the new arrangements for confederation with Serbia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2003-02-04">
               <chron-head>4 February 2003</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Both chambers of the Federal Assembly approved the Constitutional Charter, thereby inaugurating the State Union of Serbia and Montenegro. Montenegro retained the right to refer the question of independence to a referendum after a period of three years.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2003-02-09">
               <chron-head>9 February 2003</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The presidential ballot in Montenegro (at which Vujanović secured 82.0% of votes cast) was again declared invalid, as only 46.6% of the electorate participated.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2003-02-25">
               <chron-head>25 February 2003</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The existing federal and two republican legislatures elected a 126-member Assembly of Serbia and Montenegro, comprising 91 deputies from Serbia and 35 from Montenegro.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2003-03-07">
               <chron-head>7 March 2003</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The joint legislature elected new Svetozar Marović, a former Speaker of the Montenegrin Assembly, unopposed as President of the State Union of Serbia and Montenegro.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2003-05-11">
               <chron-head>11 May 2003</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Vujanović was finally elected to the Montenegrin presidency, with 63.3% of the votes cast. He was inaugurated on 13 June.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2003-07-13">
               <chron-head>13 July 2003</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Montenegrin Assembly adopted a new national flag and anthem.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2006-03-01">
               <chron-head>1 March 2006</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Montenegrin Assembly approved legislation providing for the organization of a referendum on Montenegrin independence.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2006-05-21">
               <chron-head>21 May 2006</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a referendum in Montenegro, 55.5% of votes were cast in favour of independence, narrowly exceeding the minimum requirement of 55% stipulated by the EU; 85.6% of the electorate participated.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2006-06-03">
               <chron-head>3 June 2006</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Montenegro declared independence from the State Union. Serbia formally recognized this later in the month, and Montenegro was admitted to the United Nations (UN) at the end of June.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2006-09-10">
               <chron-head>10 September 2006</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Elections to the Assembly were won by a coalition of the DPS and the SDP, which secured 41 of the 81 seats. The SNP-led alliance obtained 11 seats, being displaced as the largest opposition group by the more nationalist Srpska Lista (Serbian List), led by Andrija Mandić of the Srpska Narodna Stranka (SNS—Serb People’s Party), which won 12 seats. A new, pro-EU party, the Pokret za Promjene (PzP—Movement for Changes), obtained 11 seats. In October Đukanović announced that he would not seek to continue his premiership, while remaining leader of the DPS.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>10 November 2006</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Government, headed by the former Minister of Justice, Željko Šturanović, was established.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2007-10-19">
               <chron-head>19 October 2007</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Constitution was approved by the Assembly, narrowly achieving the requisite two-thirds’ majority of votes; it was promulgated on 22 October.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2008-02-06">
               <chron-head>6 February 2008</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The DPS nominated Đukanović to return to the prime ministerial office, following the recent resignation of Šturanović on grounds of ill health.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2008-02-29">
               <chron-head>29 February 2008</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly approved the appointment of Đukanović as premier and of his Government (which remained unchanged from the previous administration).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2008-04-6">
               <chron-head>6 April 2008</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Vujanović was re-elected to the presidency, with 51.9% of the votes cast, defeating three rivals.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 October 2008</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Montenegro announced that it recognized the independence of Kosovo from Serbia, which had been declared in February. In response, Serbia expelled the Montenegrin ambassador.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2008-12-15">
               <chron-head>15 December 2008</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Montenegro submitted an application for EU membership.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2009-03-29">
               <chron-head>29 March 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Early elections to the Assembly were contested by 16 parties and alliances; Đukanović's Koalicija za Evropsku Crnu Goru (KECG—Coalition for a European Montenegro) secured 51.9% of the votes cast and 48 seats, while the SNP won 16.8% of the votes and 16 seats, Nova Srpska Demokratija (NOVA—New Serbian Democracy) 9.2% of the votes and eight seats, and the PzP 6.0% of the votes and five seats. Around 66.2% of the electorate participated.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2009-06-10">
               <chron-head>10 June 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly approved a new Government, again led by Đukanović; the six new ministers included Marović, who became a Deputy Prime Minister.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>1 May 2010</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A Stabilization and Association Agreement with the EU entered into effect.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>17 December 2010</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Montenegro was formally granted the status of candidate country for membership of the EU. Accession negotiations commenced in June 2012.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 December 2010</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Đukanović resigned as Prime Minister, and Marović as Deputy Prime Minister.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>29 December 2010</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly approved the appointment of the erstwhile Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, Igor Lukšić, as Prime Minister, and the formation of a new Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>14 December 2011</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Montenegro, Albania and the FYRM signed an agreement providing for the abolition of border controls for their citizens.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>14 October 2012</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At elections to the Assembly, Đukanović’s KECG alliance secured 46.3% of the votes cast and 39 seats (a loss of support from the 2009 elections). An alliance formed by the PzP and NOVA, Demokratski Front (the Democratic Front—DF), obtained 23.2% of the votes and 20 seats, and the SNP obtained 11.2% of the votes and nine seats. A participation rate of 70.6% was recorded, and OSCE observers endorsed the conduct of the elections.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>4 December 2012</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly approved Đukanović’s return to the premiership and the formation of a coalition Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>7 April 2013</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In the presidential election, Vujanović defeated Miodrag Lekić of the DF, obtaining 51.2% of the votes cast, compared with the 48.8% won by his rival.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>26 August 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Bilateral border demarcation agreements were formally signed with Bosnia and Herzegovina and with Kosovo; the latter agreement was only ratified by the Kosovo legislature in March 2018, as it had attracted particular controversy there.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>17 October 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Anti-Government protests organized by the DF, which had commenced in the previous month, became violent when police forcibly dispersed demonstrators, reportedly injuring opposition politicians; the DF had also commenced a boycott of the Assembly in September.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>22 January 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The SDP leader and Speaker of the Assembly Ranko Krivokapić (previously a close ally of Đukanović) announced that the SDP was to leave the Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>26 April 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following the recent resignations of editors at the state-owned broadcaster Radiotelevizija Crne Gore (Radio and Television of Montenegro), in compliance with opposition demands, representatives of a number of opposition parties (excluding the DF) signed an agreement with the DPS on the reconstitution of the Government to admit five opposition members, in an effort to ensure stability and transparency prior to legislative elections. The parties also signed an agreement pledging not to form coalitions with the DPS before or after the elections.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>19 May 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly approved a new Government led by Đukanović, comprising members of the DPS, as well as Bosniak, Albanian and Croatian minority parties and three other opposition parties. The Assembly also voted to remove Ranko Krivokapić from the post of Speaker (he was succeeded in June by Darko Pajović of the PCG). On the same day NATO Ministers of Foreign Affairs signed an Accession Protocol for Montenegro.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 September 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The High Court announced that it had accepted a second plea bargain arrangement pertaining to Marović, who had been convicted on charges of abuse of office and malpractice; he was sentenced to a prison term of three years and 10 months.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>16 October 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Legislative elections took place. The DPS was placed first, with 41.4% of the votes cast and 36 seats, while a coalition led by the DF obtained 20.3% and 18 seats; the SNP-led Koalicija Ključ (Key Coalition) secured 11.1% and nine seats, Demokratska Crna Gora (Democratic Montenegro, established by breakaway members of the SNP) 10.0% and eight seats, and the SDP 5.2% and four seats. Following the elections, opposition parties accused the authorities of electoral malpractice, and announced a boycott of the Assembly.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>6 November 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At an extraordinary press conference, the Chief Special Prosecutor for Organized Crime, Milivoje Katnić, announced that a plot by a criminal organization of Russian and Serb nationalists to assassinate Đukanović on the day of the elections had been thwarted. Two DF leaders, Andrija Mandić (formerly of the SNS) and Milan Knežević, were accused of involvement, and their parliamentary immunity was lifted in February 2017. Katnić accused the Russian state of involvement in the conspiracy. By early March eight Serbian nationals had also received short prison sentences, in connection with the alleged plot. In protest against the official plans to prosecute Mandić and Knežević, opposition parties boycotted local elections held in Nikšić on 12 March.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>28 November 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>After the DPS reached a coalition agreement with the Socijaldemokrate Crne Gore (Social Democrats of Montenegro) and three other parties, obtaining a narrow parliamentary majority, a new Government was approved by the Assembly. The Government, led by erstwhile deputy premier Duško Marković, an ally of Đukanović and a former head of national security, included four members of the previous administration.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 June 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Montenegro was admitted to NATO.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>6 September 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>
        The trial of 14 suspects accused of involvement in the alleged coup attempt, including Mandić and Knežević, and two Russian military intelligence officers 
        <i>in absentia</i>
        , began at the High Court in Podgorica. A Serbian nationalist arrested in October 2016, who had become the principal prosecution witness, supported claims that Russian officers had ordered and financed the attempted coup.
      </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 December 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The DF announced that its parliamentary deputies would end their participation in the collective boycott that had been initiated following the elections; other opposition parties criticized the decision.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>15 April 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A presidential election took place, in which Vujanović was ineligible to seek a further term of office. Đukanović, who contested the election with the support of the DPS and other government coalition parties, won an outright victory, winning 53.9% of the votes cast. He defeated six other candidates, including Mladen Bojanić, a former parliamentary deputy and civil rights activist standing as an independent candidate supported by the DF, who was placed second, with 33.4%. The rate of participation was 63.9%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>27 May 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Local elections were conducted in 11 municipalities, including Podgorica (following polls in one municipality on 20 May and in two on 4 February); the DPS was first-placed in 10 municipalities, securing a majority in five and retaining control of Podgorica City Assembly. Monitors reported irregularities and incidents of violence. The former municipality of Tuzi was restored at the beginning of September, in response to demands from the ethnic Albanian community.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>2 February 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Anti-Government protests commenced in Podgorica, led by civic activists, who demanded the resignation of public officials, including the President and chief prosecutors.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>30 March 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The organizers of the Odupri se! (Resist!) protest movement and all 39 opposition deputies signed an Agreement for the Future, demanding the formation of an interim government of national unity, prior to new elections. Protesters also sought the resignations of senior officials of Radiotelevizija Crne Gore, whom they accused of pro-Government bias.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 May 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>
        The Higher Court found 13 defendants guilty of plotting the coup in October 2016, including Mandić and Knežević, as well as, 
        <i>in absentia</i>
        , two Russian military intelligence agents. A 14th defendant was to be tried 
        <i>in absentia</i>
         in a separate case.
      </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 January 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>New legislation on religion, which had been adopted on 27 December 2019, entered into force. The new law committed the Property Directorate to the compilation of a register of all religious buildings and sites nationwide within a period of 12 months, including sites that the authorities claimed belonged to the independent kingdom of Montenegro prior to it becoming part of the Serb-dominated Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes in 1918. The controversial legislation had led to mass protests, and compelled religious communities to provide evidence of ownership in order to retain their properties, a provision that the Srpska Pravoslavna Crkva (SPC—Serbian Orthodox Church) claimed was designed to weaken it by stripping it of its assets.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>14 February 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Representatives of the SPC, headed by Metropolitan of Montenegro and the Littoral Amfilohije (Radović), submitted a list of proposed changes to the contested legislation to Prime Minister Marković. Metropolitan Amfilohije subsequently urged his supporters not to vote for politicians who had supported the legislation; Ðukanović accused the SPC of undermining legal order.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>25 June 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Having declared the country free from COVID-19 in May, the Government reintroduced restrictions on public gatherings (including political protests). The spread of the disease accelerated from October and the related measures were progressively increased. A vaccination programme was launched in February 2021.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>30 August 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Legislative elections took place, with the participation of some 76.6% of the electorate. The DPS won 35.1% of the votes and 30 seats. Second-placed was opposition alliance Za Budućnost Crne Gore (For the Future of Montenegro), which largely comprised the DF, the SNP and a new pro-Serbian alliance, the Narodni Pokret Crne Gore (Popular Movement), and secured 32.6% of the votes and 27 seats. An alliance led by the Demokratska Crna Gora (DCG—Democratic Montenegro) and Demokratski Savez (Demos—Democratic Alliance), Mir je Naša Nacija (Peace is Our Nation), received 12.5% of the votes and 10 seats, while the Ujedinjena Reformska Akcija (URA—United Reform Action) won 5.5% and four seats. Meanwhile, opposition groupings won local polls in four of the five contested municipalities. Amid the decline in support for the DPS, Za Budućnost Crne Gore, Mir je Naša Nacija and the URA, which comprised around 20 parties, many of them pro-Serbian and pro-Russian, and held a narrow majority of 41 seats, agreed to form a government (thus removing the DPS from power after some 30 years).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>23 September 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Za Budućnost Crne Gore leader Zdravko Krivokapić, who was also a leader of the anti-Government protests and who had a close relationship with the SPC, was nominated as Prime Minister-designate by the Assembly. The leader of DCG, Aleksa Bečić, was elected as parliamentary Speaker.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>30 October 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Metropolitan Amfilohije died after contracting COVID-19.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>4 December 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Krivokapić’s Government was approved by 41 votes in the legislature. The leader of the URA, Dritan Abazović, became Deputy Prime Minister, and the remaining ministers were non-party members.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>18 December 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Government proposals changing the religious freedom law to remove the obligation for religious communities to provide evidence of ownership in order to retain properties were narrowly approved, with the support of the 41 pro-government deputies in the Assembly. The vote was boycotted by opposition deputies and a large anti-Government protest was staged outside the parliamentary building.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>20 January 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly again adopted the amended law on religious freedom, after Ðukanović had vetoed the amendments, thereby obliging him to sign it into effect.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 February 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Appeals Court annulled the verdicts issued in May 2019 against the 13 defendants in the trial relating to the alleged 2016 coup attempt.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>17 June 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The legislature voted in favour of the dismissal of the Minister of Justice and Human and Minority Rights, Vladimir Leposavić, which had been proposed by Prime Minister Krivokapić, in April. Leposavić had expressed doubts about the legitimacy of the 2004 ruling by the UN’s International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia that identified as genocide the massacre in Srebrenica, Bosnia and Herzegovina, in 1995 of more than 8,000 men and boys. A resolution was also adopted prohibiting public denial of the genocide. The pro-Serbian DF, which had not supported the dismissal, consequently announced a parliamentary boycott.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>4 February 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A motion of no confidence, proposed in January by the URA-led Crno na Bijelo (Black on White) bloc, was adopted with the support of 43 members of the 81-seat Assembly. The Assembly voted three days later to remove Bečić as Speaker. Later that month Katnić was removed as Special State Prosecutor.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>28 April 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new, minority Government, led by URA leader Abazović, was approved by 46 votes in the legislature. The Government announced its intention to accelerate the European integration process.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 July 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Government voted in favour of a controversial `fundamental agreement’ with the SPC, which was, however, opposed by parties including the DPS and the SDP. Under the regulatory framework contained in the agreement, the Government would be obliged to register all Orthodox churches and monasteries as belonging to the SPC and undertake the restitution of SPC property that had been nationalized or confiscated by the communist-era authorities. The agreement was signed by Abazović on 3 August. </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>20 August 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A motion of no confidence in the Government was adopted by the Assembly (with 50 deputies voting in favour and one against). The Government remained in office in an acting capacity.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 October 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly voted to dismiss Minister of Foreign Affairs Ranko Krivokapić and Minister of Defence Raško Konjević, both SDP representatives, accusing them of acting against state interests. </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>23 October 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Local elections took place. They resulted in a defeat for Ðukanović’s DPS, which lost control of several major municipalities of the 14 contested, including Podgorica (held by the DPS since 1998). The DF (which won a majority in Budva), the DCG and a new political movement established by former independent ministers Milojko Spajić and Jakov Milatović, Evropa Sad! (ES!—Europe Now!), made large gains.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>1 November 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly adopted new legislation enabling a majority of deputies to propose a Prime Minister-designate, thus assuming a constitutional power assigned to the President.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>29 December 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>DF leader Lekić was designated Prime Minister by 41 deputies in the Assembly; however, negotiations on the formation of a government collapsed in the following month.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>16 March 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A 90-day period permitted for the formation of a new government expired, and Ðukanović duly dissolved the Assembly. Pre-term elections were scheduled for June.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>19 March 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In the first round of voting in the presidential election, Ðukanović was first-placed, with 35.4% of the votes cast, followed by Milatović of ES! with 28.9% and Andrija Mandić of the SDP with 19.3%. Voter turnout was recorded at 64.1%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>2 April 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a second round of presidential voting Milatović, with the support of the ruling parties and the unsuccessful first-round candidates, was elected to the presidency with 58.9% of votes cast. Turnout was 70.1%. Milatović’s principal electoral pledge was to accelerate Montenegro’s EU accession process; he was inaugurated on 20 May.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>14 May 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The DF leadership announced its dissolution.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>11 June 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In the pre-term legislative elections, ES! emerged as the winner, with 25.5% of the votes cast and 24 seats in the Assembly, while a DPS-led coalition, Zajedno! Za Budoćnost Koja ti Pripada (Together! For the Future that Belongs to You), took 23.2% of the votes and 21 seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
     </chron-list>
</chronology>