<?xml version="1.0"?>
<directory id="PL.DIR" id-root="pl" iso="pl" name-markup-type="STANDARD" original-filename="poldir1.rtf" print-style="PGWIDTH" usage="ewyb casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <dir-section id="PL.DIR.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
          <heading>Directory</heading>
          <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb casee">Poland</alt-heading>
          <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb casee">Directory</alt-heading>
          <dir-sectref dir-sectiondtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" id="SL226186" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="226185" slsdocid="216843" slsdocty="dir-section dir-sectiondtd"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
               
               <dir-section id="PL.DIR.2" id-root="pl.dir" iso="pl" sect-type="constitution" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="casee">
                    <heading>The Constitution</heading>
                    <p id="PL.DIR.3">The Constitution of the Republic of Poland was adopted by the National Assembly on 2 April 1997 and endorsed by popular referendum on 25 May of that year. The following is a summary of the main provisions of the Constitution, which came into force on 17 October 1997:</p>
                    <dir-section id="PL.DIR.4" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                         <heading>The Republic</heading>
                         <p id="PL.DIR.5">The Republic of Poland shall be a unitary, democratic state, ruled by law, and implementing the principles of social justice. The Republic shall safeguard the independence and integrity of its territory, ensure the freedom and rights of persons and citizens, and safeguard the national heritage. The Constitution shall be the supreme law of the Republic, which shall respect international law binding upon it. Legislative power shall be vested in the Sejm (Assembly) and the Senat (Senate), executive power shall be vested in the President and the Council of Ministers, and judicial power shall be vested in the courts and tribunals.</p>
                         <p id="PL.DIR.6">The Republic shall ensure freedom for the creation and functioning of political parties, trade unions and other voluntary associations. The financing of political parties shall be open to public inspection. Political parties and other organizations whose programmes are based upon totalitarian methods and the modes of activity of nazism, fascism and communism, as well as those whose programmes or activities sanction racial or national hatred, or the application of violence for the purpose of obtaining power or to influence the state’s policy, or provide for the secrecy of their own structure or membership, shall be forbidden. The Republic shall ensure freedom of the press and other means of social communication.</p>
                         <p id="PL.DIR.7">A social market economy, based on the freedom of economic activity, private ownership, and solidarity, dialogue and co-operation between social partners, shall be the basis of the economic system of Poland.</p>
                         <p id="PL.DIR.8">Churches and other religious organizations shall have equal rights. Public authorities shall be impartial in matters of personal conviction, and shall ensure their freedom of expression within public life. The Armed Forces shall observe neutrality regarding political matters and shall be subject to civil and democratic control.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="PL.DIR.10" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                         <heading>The Freedoms, Rights and Obligations of Persons and Citizens</heading>
                         <p id="PL.DIR.11">All persons shall be equal before the law. Polish citizens belonging to national or ethnic minorities shall be guaranteed the freedom to maintain and develop their own language, to maintain customs and traditions, and to develop their own culture.</p>
                         <p id="PL.DIR.12">The Republic shall ensure the legal protection of the life of every human being; the inviolability of the person and of the home; freedom of movement; freedom of faith and religion; and the freedom to express opinions. The freedom of peaceful assembly and association shall be guaranteed. At the age of 18 every citizen shall have the right to participate in referendums, and to vote in presidential, legislative and local elections. Everyone shall have the right to own property; the freedom to choose and pursue his occupation; the right to health protection; and the right to education.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="PL.DIR.15" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                         <heading>The Sejm and the Senat</heading>
                         <p id="PL.DIR.16">The Sejm shall be composed of 460 Deputies. Elections to the Sejm shall be universal, equal, direct, proportional and conducted by secret ballot. The Senat shall be composed of 100 Senators. Elections to the Senat shall be universal, direct and conducted by secret ballot. The Sejm and the Senat shall each be elected for a four-year term of office. At the ages of 21 and 30, respectively, every citizen having the right to vote shall be eligible for election to the Sejm and the Senat.</p>
                         <p id="PL.DIR.17">The Sejm shall elect from among its members a Marshal and Vice-Marshals. The Sejm adopts laws; may adopt a resolution on a state of war; may order a nationwide referendum; and may appoint investigative committees to examine particular matters.</p>
                         <p id="PL.DIR.18">The Senat reviews laws adopted by the Sejm; it may adopt amendments or resolve upon complete rejection. A decision of the Senat can be overridden by the Sejm by an absolute majority vote in the presence of at least one-half of the statutory number of Deputies.</p>
                         <p id="PL.DIR.19">In instances specified in the Constitution, the Sejm and the Senat, sitting in joint session, shall act as the National Assembly (Zgromadzenie Narodowe). The right to introduce legislation shall belong to Deputies, to the Senat, to the President of the Republic, to the Council of Ministers, and to a group of at least 100,000 citizens having the right to vote in elections to the Sejm.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="PL.DIR.20" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                         <heading>The President of the Republic</heading>
                         <p id="PL.DIR.21">The President of the Republic of Poland shall be the supreme representative of the Polish state and the guarantor of the continuity of state authority. The President shall ensure observance of the Constitution, and safeguard the sovereignty and security of the state, as well as the inviolability and integrity of its territory. The Presi­dent shall be elected in universal, equal and direct elections by secret ballot. The President shall be elected for a five-year term, and may be re-elected only once. Only a Polish citizen aged over 35 years, with full electoral rights in elections to the Sejm, may be elected President. Any such candidature shall be supported by the signa­tures of at least 100,000 citizens having the right to vote in elections to the Sejm. If the President of the Republic is unable to discharge the duties of his office, the Marshal of the Sejm shall temporarily assume presidential duties.</p>
                         <p id="PL.DIR.22">The President’s duties include the calling of elections to the Sejm and the Senat; heading the Armed Forces; nominating and appointing the Prime Minister; appointing senior public officials; and representing the state in foreign affairs.</p>
                         <p id="PL.DIR.23">Bringing an indictment against the President shall be done by resolution of the National Assembly, passed by a majority of at least two-thirds of the statutory number of members, on the motion of at least 140 members.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="PL.DIR.24" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                         <heading>The Council of Ministers and Government Administration</heading>
                         <p id="PL.DIR.25">The Council of Ministers shall conduct the internal affairs and foreign policy of the Republic, and shall manage the government administration. The President shall nominate a Prime Minister who shall propose the composition of a Council of Ministers. The Prime Minister shall, within 14 days following his appointment, submit a programme of activity of the Council of Ministers to the Sejm, together with a motion requiring a vote of confidence.</p>
                         <p id="PL.DIR.26">The members of the Council of Ministers shall be responsible to the Sejm, both collectively and individually. The Sejm may pass a vote of no confidence in the Council of Ministers by a majority of votes of the statutory number of Deputies, on a motion of at least 46 Deputies, specifying the name of a candidate for Prime Minister.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="PL.DIR.27" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                         <heading>Local Self-Government</heading>
                         <p id="PL.DIR.28">
            The commune 
            <i>(gmina)</i>
             shall be the basic unit of local self-government. Other units of regional and/or local self-government shall be specified by statute. Public duties aimed at satisfying the needs of a self-governing community shall be the direct responsibility of such units. Units of local self-government shall perform their duties through constitutive and executive organs. Units of local self-government shall be assured public funds for the performance of the duties assigned to them.
          </p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="PL.DIR.29" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                         <heading>Courts and Tribunals</heading>
                         <p id="PL.DIR.30">The courts and tribunals shall constitute a separate and independ­ent power. The administration of justice in Poland shall be implemented by the Supreme Court, the common courts, administrative courts and military courts. Judges, within the exercise of their office, shall be independent and subject only to the Constitution and statutes. The Supreme Court shall exercise supervision over common and military courts.</p>
                         <dir-section id="PL.DIR.31" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                              <heading>The Constitutional Tribunal</heading>
                              <p id="PL.DIR.32">The Constitutional Tribunal shall adjudicate on the conformity of statutes and other normative acts issued by central state organs to the Constitution. Its judgments shall be universally binding and final. Judges of the Tribunal shall be independent and subject only to the Constitution.</p>
                         </dir-section>
                         <dir-section id="PL.DIR.33" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                              <heading>The Tribunal of State</heading>
                              <p id="PL.DIR.34">Persons holding high state positions (as specified in the Constitution) shall be accountable to the Tribunal of State for violations of the Constitution or statutes. The First President of the Supreme Court shall be Chairman of the Tribunal. Its members shall be independ­ent and subject only to the Constitution and statutes.</p>
                         </dir-section>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="PL.DIR.35" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                         <heading>Organs of State Control for the Defence of Rights</heading>
                         <p id="PL.DIR.36">The Supreme Chamber of Control shall be the chief organ of state order, and shall be subordinate to the Sejm. It shall audit the activity of the organs of government administration, the National Bank of Poland, state legal persons and other state organizational units. The Commissioner for Citizens’ Rights shall safeguard the freedoms and rights of persons and citizens as specified in the Constitution and other normative acts. The National Broadcasting Council shall safeguard freedom of speech and the right to information, as well as the public interest regarding radio- and television- broadcasting.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="PL.DIR.40" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                         <heading>Extraordinary Measures</heading>
                         <p id="PL.DIR.41">In situations of particular danger, if ordinary constitutional measures are inadequate, any of the following appropriate extraordinary measures may be introduced in a part or upon the whole territory of the state: martial law, a state of emergency or a state of natural disaster.</p>
                    </dir-section>
               </dir-section>
          </dir-sectref>
          </dir-section>
     </directory>