<?xml version="1.0"?>
<country-survey id="BA.EC" id-root="ba" iso="ba" original-filename="bihecon.rtf" print-style="PGWIDTH" sect-type="economy" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>Economy</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Bosnia and Herzegovina </alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Economy</alt-heading>
     <author-group>
          <primary-authors>
               <person-name>
                    <forename>Will</forename>
                    <surname>Bartlett</surname>
               </person-name>
          </primary-authors>
     </author-group>
     <p>Deputy Director, LSE Research on South-east Europe, London School of Economics and Political Science, University of London, United Kingdom.</p>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Introduction</heading>
          <p id="BOSNIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P1">Bosnia and Herzegovina was one of the poorer republics of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Despite receiving regional aid from the Federal Government its relative position declined over time, output per head falling to 67% of the federal average by 1989. The economy was specialized in basic production activities such as coal mining, metallurgy, metal processing, including steel and aluminium production, and forestry, wood processing and the manufacture of wood products. Armaments manufacturing activities were dispersed among the secure mountainous areas in the interior of the republic. During 1948-90 the economy grew at an average annual rate of 4.3%. In the later part of this period growth slowed, and from 1986 the economy began to contract as restrictive policies were introduced to combat inflation.</p>
          <p id="BOSNIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P2">The economy was devastated by the post-independence war of 1992-95, during which about 100,000 people died, and over 2m. refugees fled the country, or were internally displaced. Almost one-half of industrial capacity was destroyed, livestock was reduced by around one-third, and about one-fifth of the housing stock was destroyed or badly damaged. Industrial output fell to about 5% of the level pre-conflict and income per head to 20% of the pre-war level.</p>
          <p id="BOSNIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P3">The country’s first post-war census was carried out in October 2013: the final results, which were published in 2016, enumerated the population at 3,531,159, with 62.8% living in the Federation, 34.8% in Republika Srpska and 2.4% in Brčko District. The census also showed that 50.1% of the population were ethnic Bosniaks, 30.8% Serbs and 15.4% Croats. The distribution of gross domestic product (GDP) broadly reflected the distribution of the population among jurisdictions, with some 65.5% of GDP produced in the Federation, some 32.4% in Republika Srpska and some 2.4% in Brčko District. The economy continues to be highly dependent on inflows of international aid and of remittances from workers resident abroad, in countries such as Austria and Germany.</p>
          <p>Bosnia and Herzegovina was profoundly affected by the emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic, with one of the highest death rates in the world. The first wave of the pandemic in March-April 2020 was countered by an effective lockdown introduced under states of emergency imposed by the entity Governments. Border closures and social distancing measures led to a combined collapse in both demand and supply, which had adverse consequences for the economy. However, a second wave of COVID-19 cases from November 2020 and a third wave in March 2021 had a devastating impact due to the inadequate health service infrastructure and a lack of vaccination capacity. This was combined with a reduction in international trade, especially in services sectors such as tourism, and a decline in the inflow of remittances from Bosnian workers abroad. In addition, thousands of international migrants were stranded in the country, living in inadequate accommodation. Political disagreements concerning policy co-ordination weakened the coherence of the response to the pandemic.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Economic Growth</heading>
          <p id="BOSNIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P4">The economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina grew at a rapid pace during 2000-08, with an average annual increase in real GDP of 5.8%, but the global financial crisis and subsequent eurozone crisis brought this growth to a halt. Exports fell sharply and inflows of foreign direct investment (FDI) declined, causing real GDP to contract by 2.7% in 2009. The recovery from the economic crisis was delayed as business investment fell from 24% of GDP before the crisis to an average of 18% of GDP over the following decade. Real GDP growth in 2009-16 averaged only 1.0% per year, before recovering somewhat; between 2017 and 2019 the rate of real GDP growth rose to an annual average of 3.2%. The COVID-19 pandemic put this limited progress into reverse, and real GDP declined by 3.1% in 2020. There was some economic recovery, with a rebound in real GDP growth of 5.8% in 2021 and of a more modest 3.9% in 2022.</p>
          <p id="BOSNIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P5">The industrial sector (mining, manufacturing, electricity and water supply, and construction), which collapsed during the war, has recovered and in 2022 accounted for 30.1% of GDP. Manufacturing activity, the largest part of the industrial sector, plays an important role in the economy, and contributed 17.8% of GDP. Wholesale and retail trade, including transport and hotels and restaurants, generated 29.4% in that year, and public administration and defence, social security, education and health services contributed a further 18.8%.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section id="BA.12481806681" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Fiscal Policy</heading>
          <p id="BOSNIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P6">Bosnia and Herzegovina joined the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in December 1995 and was the first country to draw on the IMF’s emergency post-conflict fund. The economic strategy was based upon the adoption of a fixed exchange rate as a `nominal anchor’ to underpin price stability, the observance of strict fiscal discipline, and reliance on large inflows of concessional financial assistance in the form of grants and loans from abroad. These objectives were broadly met in subsequent years. Cuts in budget expenditure resulted in a reduction in total government spending, which was reduced to 40.6% of GDP in 2019 (from 45.8% of GDP in 2014). During 2015-19 there was a steady government budget surplus, averaging 1.7% of GDP per year over that period, and general government consolidated gross debt declined to 32.4% of GDP. This deflationary policy created substantial fiscal buffers enabling a rapid fiscal response to the COVID-19 pandemic.</p>
          <p id="BOSNIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P7">The onset of the COVID-19 pandemic caused a reduction in government revenue from taxes due to the sharp decline in economic activity in 2020, accompanied by a sharp increase in expenditure which reached 47% of GDP. This led to a budget deficit equivalent to 5.2% of GDP in 2020, before it returned to a small surplus in 2021. In response to the pandemic, the IMF provided a €333m. emergency assistance package in April 2020 under its Rapid Financing Instrument (RFI) to help the country meet needs in regard to the balance of payments. The RFI supported efforts by the Government to contain the adverse effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the population through increased expenditure on health services, unemployment and social benefits, and to mitigate its economic impact. The measures adopted to combat the effects of the pandemic included support for severely affected firms and an increase in public spending to maintain employment.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Monetary Policy</heading>
          <p id="BOSNIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P8">After the end of the war, a Central Bank was established in 1997 and a new currency known as the konvertibilna marka (KM or convertible mark) was introduced, which was pegged initially to the German Deutsche Mark and later to the euro (KM 1 = €0.51). A currency board arrangement was established, under which each KM that the Central Bank puts into circulation is fully covered by foreign exchange reserves. In 2022 foreign reserves were substantial, covering the equivalent of 6.9 months of imports. This arrangement was designed to ensure monetary stability, and as a result inflation has been subdued in recent years.</p>
          <p id="BOSNIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P9">Monetary policy was loosened in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Loan moratoria were introduced to ease liquidity constraints and credit guarantees put in place to help reduce borrowing costs and ensure a continued flow of bank credit to severely affected sectors. Despite the loosening of policy, the banking system has remained stable with adequate capital buffers, steady non-performing loan (NPL) ratios, and adequate liquidity-coverage ratios. Monetary policy was eased in response to the recessionary effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. The money supply, measured by the total amount of currency and loans (broad money—M2) increased as a ratio of GDP from 71.3% in 2018 to 81.3% in 2020, before falling back to 70.3% in 2022. However, consumer prices increased by 14.0% in 2022 in the context of global price pressures.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>The Development of the Private Sector</heading>
          <p id="BOSNIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P12">A framework privatization law was adopted at the state level in 1998, and specific laws were subsequently adopted in the two entities in 1999. Privatization was based upon the distribution of vouchers to the population. In Republika Srpska, the Privatization Agency issued both coupons and vouchers and privatization proceeded more rapidly there than in the Federation. However, the overall slow pace of privatization and the unfavourable business climate have discouraged the growth of the private sector. It is difficult to start a new company in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because of the high entry costs. Although some progress has been achieved with electronic business registration, there has been far less progress in creating a unified internal market encompassing both entities. To operate across the whole country, multiple registrations are required, increasing the cost of establishing a company and reducing the level of competition in the economy as a whole.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Foreign Trade and Payments</heading>
          <p id="BOSNIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P16">The currency board arrangement has prevented the use of exchange rate adjustment as an instrument to influence international trade, and exports have generally struggled to keep pace with imports. Imports of goods and services were equivalent to around 61% of GDP in 2022, while exports were equivalent to just 47% of GDP. Almost three-quarters of exports and three-fifths of imports are with EU member states. International trade is mainly composed of goods rather than services, with imports of services amounting to only 3.6% of GDP and exports of services just 11%. There is therefore significant scope for the development of the services export sector, whether in the form of tourism, transport or business services.</p>
          <p id="BOSNIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P17">The deficit on the external balance on goods and services amounted to 22.1% of GDP in 2022. This was largely driven by deficits arising from the import of motor cars and other transport equipment, food, clothing, live animals, chemical products and oil products; these deficits were offset to some extent by surpluses in manufactured goods and raw materials. Income transfers, including remittances from workers employed abroad, cover a large part of the trade deficit. Remittances are estimated to have declined by about one percentage point in 2020, owing to the adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the employment and earnings of migrants working abroad. Tourism revenues also fell as a result of the restrictions introduced to combat the pandemic. Despite this setback, at 10% of GDP in 2021, the inflow of personal remittances to Bosnia and Herzegovina was among the largest in Central and South-Eastern Europe.</p>
          <p>In 2022 the overall current account deficit reached 4.5% of GDP, far higher than in recent years, and the Government has borrowed from international financial institutions to cover it. Total external debt, including private sector debt, amounted to 58% of GDP in 2021, a rather high level, which increased the country’s vulnerability to increases in international interest rates.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>International Aid and Foreign Direct Investment</heading>
          <p id="BOSNIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P18">Between 1996 and 1999 international donors provided post-war aid amounting to some US&#160;$5,100m. to finance reconstruction projects. More than 200 foreign organizations took part in the programme to repair an estimated $20,000m. of damage caused during the war of the early 1990s. As post-war reconstruction came to an end, international aid inflows shifted from grants towards concessional loans. The total net official development assistance from all sources, including grants and concessionary loans, amounted to $564m. in 2021, equivalent to $173 per head, or 2.5% of gross national income. Despite the large inflows of international aid over the last 25 years, however, living standards remain low.</p>
          <p id="BOSNIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P19">International assistance has been supplemented by meagre inflows of private FDI, which was equivalent to 2.5% of GDP in 2022, only slightly above the average annual inward FDI of 2.2% of GDP between 2009 and 2019. Although the country has several attractive features for foreign investors, including abundant raw materials and low production costs, numerous factors have inhibited foreign investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, notably political instability, administrative complexity and high levels of corruption.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>The Labour Market</heading>
          <p id="BOSNIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P20">
      The level of employment fell sharply in the early 1990s, owing to the destruction of factories during the war and the mass migration brought about by `ethnic cleansing’. By 1994 employment had fallen to just 17% of its pre-war level, recovering only gradually in the post-war years. In 2022 the employment rate (the ratio of employment to the total working-age population) was just 40% (and even lower, at just 29%, for women). Unemployment has been falling over time, to 15% in 2022 (20% for women), 
      <!--rate of around 29% according to stats-->
      according to the International Labour Organization. University graduates have better job prospects than non-graduates, with an unemployment rate of 11%.
    </p>
          <p id="BOSNIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P21">Youth unemployment is a particularly serious problem. In 2022 the rate of unemployment among young people aged between 15 and 24 years was 35%, and the rate was even higher among young women, at 42%. In 2021 two-fifths of young people were neither in employment, education nor training. Long-term unemployment is also a major problem, with almost two-thirds of unemployed people being out of work for more than 12 months. There is a large informal economy, in which almost one-half work in agriculture, and around one-sixth work in construction. The average net monthly wage in formal employment activities was KM&#160;1,190 (about €608) in December 2022, which was 14% higher than in the same month of the previous year.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Social Welfare, Health and Education</heading>
          <p id="BOSNIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P23">About 17% of the population live below the poverty line as a result of long-term slow growth and high unemployment. The informal economy, substantial corruption, a system that discourages entrepreneurial start-ups, and the complex political structure all contribute to this situation. The groups most at risk of poverty are children below the age of five, displaced persons and refugees, unemployed persons, and people with a low level of education. Social protection expenditure accounts has accounted for around 22% of GDP, mainly allocated to health care (9.4%) and pensions (10.2%), with relatively little available for cash social assistance in the form of family benefits or unemployment benefits.</p>
          <p id="BOSNIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P24">Pensions are the responsibility of the entity Governments on a `pay as you go’ basis, financed by a 23% contribution on gross salary in the Federation and 18.5% in Republika Srpska. In Republika Srpska, the pension system was reformed when the loss-making Pension Fund was abolished in 2015 and responsibility for pensions payments was transferred to the entity budget. The Federation adopted a Law on Pension and Disability Insurance in February 2018 which was aligned with the system already in place in Republika Srpska. This reform introduced a points system and provided incentives for later retirement.</p>
          <p id="BOSNIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P25">Apart from the increase in illness and deaths that resulted from the COVID-19 pandemic, the leading cause of ill health in Bosnia and Herzegovina is cardiovascular disease. Life expectancy in 2021 was 75.3 (73.1 for males and 77.5 for females). The health system collapsed during the war, and subsequently relied heavily on donor assistance for its revival. Domestic health expenditure represented a substantial 9.8% of GDP in 2020 (of which 29% was private expenditure). Public health expenditure is financed by contributions on wages at a rate of 15% in Republika Srpska and 17% in the Federation. Although non-insured citizens, such as informal employees, farmers and the self-employed, are entitled to free emergency treatment, they must pay for the provision of elective non-emergency care. Following the war, separate health insurance funds were set up in Republika Srpska and in each of the 10 cantons of the Federation, each of the latter being relatively small and unable to pool risk. As a result of the absence of arrangements for the cross-financing of health care between cantons, there is significant spatial inequality in health care provision. Although some cantons have inherited large hospitals that operate below capacity and other cantons have insufficient capacity, there is no mechanism in place to shift resources from one canton to another.</p>
          <p id="BOSNIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P26">Public education expenditure amounted to just 4.3% of GDP in 2020. Twelve separate ministries are responsible for education (each canton in the Federation having its own education ministry) and over 30 separate laws on education regulate the education system at pre-school, primary, secondary and university levels. Equipment is often out of date and obsolete, and there is a shortage of teachers in some fields such as computer programming, and information and communications technology (ICT) in general. There is also a lack of capacity to provide adult education. The available financial resources are devoted mainly to teachers’ salaries with little left over for the maintenance of buildings, leading to a gradual deterioration of the physical infrastructure. This is reflected in the performance outcomes of the education system. In the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA 2018) of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), which tested the ability of students at the age of 15 in reading, mathematics and science, pupils in Bosnia and Herzegovina scored an average of 403 average in reading, a level that was far below the average reading score of 472 in neighbouring Croatia or the OECD average of 487. More than one-half of pupils failed to achieve a basic proficiency in reading (below Level 2, out of six levels of proficiency), and similar results were found in mathematics and science. Progress in higher education has also been sporadic. In 2020 only 11% of the population aged over 25 years had a tertiary degree to at least Bachelor level.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Conclusion</heading>
          <p id="BOSNIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P28">Bosnia and Herzegovina is a fractured country, and the economy suffers from a number of critical problems. Paradoxically, both the central state institutions and the private sector are weak, and effective power remains with the Governments of the two entities, which have little interest in changing the status quo. The country has been over-reliant on funding from external donors and on an inflow of remittances from nationals who work abroad. Unemployment is high, especially among the youth, and a significant proportion of the population continues to live below the poverty line.</p>
          <p id="BOSNIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P29">Despite all the difficulties of a fragmented system, however, some progress has been made. The currency board managed by a strong and independent Central Bank has ensured price stability, at least until the impact of recent global events, including the Russian Federation’s invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, which have led to global inflationary pressures. Meanwhile, customs and indirect taxation have been unified at state level and a nationwide value-added tax system has been introduced, supporting the creation of a single market, which has reduced the previously large informal economy.</p>
          <p id="BOSNIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P30">From 2015 economic growth began to revive and unemployment started to fall. However, in 2020 the COVID-19 pandemic brought this growth to an end and created a short-lived economic recession. Although the economy recovered in 2021, the pandemic has had persistent effects on the labour market. Moreover, the war in Ukraine from February 2022 has had a regional impact and has hampered the pace of economic recovery.</p>
          <p id="BOSNIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P31">Ensuring sustainable economic growth to be registered in the medium term will depend upon improving the country’s international competitive position by means of progress with institutional reforms, overcoming the administrative fragmentation of government, easing conditions for the start-up of new companies, introducing measures to attract higher levels of FDI, and making progress in the development of relations with the EU to integrate the economy further into European and global markets. An improvement in competitiveness would be assisted by the greater internal economic integration of the country, which would in turn enable businesses to take greater advantage of economies of scale, raise the productivity of industry and lead to higher sustainable economic growth.</p>
     </gen-section>
</country-survey>