<?xml version="1.0"?>
<bibl-ref bibl-dtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" id="SL2373801" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="2373800" slsdocid="2187801" slsdocty="bibl-section bibl-dtd"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
          
          <bibl-section id="KS.023" id-root="ks" iso="ks" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="BIBL-REF" usage="casee">
               <heading>Bibliography</heading>
               <bibl-list>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Avramović, S. et al. 
          <i>The Predicament of Serbian Orthodox Holy Places in Kosovo and Metohia: Elements for a Historical, Legal and Conservational Understanding.</i>
           Belgrade, University of Belgrade Faculty of Law Press, 2010.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Bacevich, A. J. and Cohen, E. A. (Eds). 
          <i>War Over Kosovo.</i>
           New York, Columbia University Press, 2002.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Bataković, D. T. (Ed.). 
          <i>Kosovo and Metohija: Living in the Enclave</i>
          . Belgrade, Institute for Balkan Studies, 2007.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Berlatsky, N. (Ed.) 
          <i>Kosovo</i>
          . Detroit, IL, Greenhaven Press, 2013.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Bislimi, F. 
          <i>Newborn Kosova: Some Developments and Public Policy Challenges</i>
          . Prishtina, Victory University College, 2008.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Capussela, L. 
          <i>State-building in Kosovo: Democracy, Corruption and the EU in the Balkans.</i>
           London, I. B. Tauris, 2015.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Daalder, I. H. 
          <i>Winning Ugly: NATO's War to Save Kosovo</i>
          . Washington, DC, Brookings Institution Press, 2000.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Di Lellio, A. (Ed.). 
          <i>The Case for Kosova: Passage to Independence</i>
          . London, Anthem Press, 2006.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Drezov, K., Gokay, B. and Waller, M. (Eds). 
          <i>Kosovo: The Politics of Delusion</i>
          . London, Routledge, 2001.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Elbasani, A. 
          <i>International-Led Statebuilding and Local Resistance: Hybrid Institutional Reforms in Post-Conflict Kosovo</i>
          . Abingdon, Routledge, 2019.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Elsie, R. 
          <i>Historical Dictionary of Kosovo</i>
          . Lanham, MD, Scarecrow Press, 2004.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Elsie, R. and Destani, B. 
          <i>Kosovo, A Documentary History: From the Balkan Wars to World War II</i>
          . London, Bloomsbury, 2019.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Head, N. 
          <i>Justifying Violence: Communicative Ethics and the Use of Force in Kosovo</i>
          . Manchester, Manchester University Press, 2012.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Hehir, A. (Ed.). 
          <i>Kosovo, Intervention and Statebuilding: The International Community and the Transition to Independence</i>
          . Abingdon, Routledge, 2010.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Hehir, A. and Sheremeti, F. (Eds). 
          <i>Kosovo and Transitional Justice: The Pursuit of Justice After Large Scale-Conflict</i>
          . Abingdon, Routledge, 2021.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Henriksen, D. 
          <i>NATO’s Gamble: Combining Diplomacy and Airpower in the Kosovo Crisis, 1998-1999.</i>
           Annapolis, MD, Naval Institute Press, 2007.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Herscher, A. 
          <i>Violence Taking Place: The Architecture of the Kosovo Conflict</i>
          . Palo Alto, CA, Stanford University Press, 2010.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Judah, T. 
          <i>Kosovo: What Everyone Needs to Know.</i>
           Oxford, Oxford University Press, 2008.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Ker-Lindsay, J. 
          <i>Kosovo: The Path to Contested Statehood in the Balkans</i>
          . London, I. B. Tauris, 2009.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Knudsen, R. A. 
          <i>Privatization in Kosovo: The International Project 1999-2008.</i>
           Oslo, Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, 2010.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Kostovicova, D. 
          <i>Kosovo: The Politics of Identity and Space</i>
          . Abingdon, Routledge, 2019.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Lika, L. 
          <i>Kosovo’s Foreign Policy and Bilateral Relations</i>
           (Routledge Studies in Intervention and Statebuilding). Abingdon, Routledge, 2023.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          McMahon, P. C. 
          <i>The NGO Game: Post-conflict Peacebuilding in the Balkans and Beyond</i>
          . Ithaca, NY, Cornell University Press, 2017.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Malcolm, N. 
          <i>Kosovo: A Short History</i>
          . New York, New York University Press, 1998.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Moore, C. 
          <i>Contemporary Violence: Postmodern War in Kosovo and Chechnya.</i>
           Manchester, Manchester University Press, 2010.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Norris, J. 
          <i>Collision Course: Nato, Russia and Kosovo.</i>
           Dulles, VA, Brassey’s Inc, 2004.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Perritt, H. 
          <i>The Road to Independence for Kosovo: A Chronicle of the Ahtisaari Plan.</i>
           Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 2009.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Pettifer, J. 
          <i>The Kosova Liberation Army: Underground War to Balkan Insurgency, 1948-2001</i>
          . Columbia, OH, Columbia University Press, 2012.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Phillips, D. L. 
          <i>Liberating Kosovo: Coercive Diplomacy and U.S. Intervention</i>
          . Cambridge, MA, MIT Press, 2012.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Ramet, S. P., Simkus, A. A. and Listhaug, O. 
          <i>Civic and Uncivic Values in Kosovo: History, Politics and Value Transformation</i>
          . Budapest, Central European University Press, 2015.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Rodt, A. P. and Wolff, S. (Eds). 
          <i>Self-Determination after Kosovo</i>
          . Abingdon, Routledge, 2017.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Schleicher, E. 
          <i>Positive Peace in Kosovo: A Dream Unfulfilled</i>
          . Peter Lang, New York, 2011.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Skendaj, E. 
          <i>Creating Kosovo: International Oversight and the Making of Ethical Institutions</i>
          . Washington, DC, Woodrow Wilson Center Press, 2014.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Tabak, H. 
          <i>The Kosovar Turks and Post-Kemalist Turkey: Foreign Policy, Socialisation and Resistance</i>
          . London, I. B. Tauris, 2017.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Visoka, G. 
          <i>Shaping Peace in Kosovo: The Politics of Peacebuilding and Statehood</i>
          . London, Palgrave Macmillan, 2017.
        </bibl-entry>
               </bibl-list>
          </bibl-section>
     </bibl-ref>
