<?xml version="1.0"?>
<country-survey id="PL.EC" id-root="pl" iso="pl" original-filename="polecon.rtf" print-style="PGWIDTH" sect-type="economy" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>Economy</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Poland</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Economy</alt-heading>
     <author-group>
          <primary-authors>
               <person-name>
                    <forename>Anna</forename>
                    <surname>Visvizi</surname>
               </person-name>
          </primary-authors>
     </author-group>
     <p>Associate Professor, SGH Warsaw School of Economics, Poland, and Fellow, Hellenic Institute of Growth and Prosperity, American College of Greece, Athens, Greece.</p>
     <p />
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Introduction</heading>
          <p>To many observers the state of Polish economy remains difficult to assess, i.e. either the long-term sources behind Poland’s growth and development remain unclear, or the politically-driven pressures that seriously undermine Poland’s success today are unrecognized. Throughout 2022 and 2023 the narrative of Poland was shaped by the war in neighbouring Ukraine; by Poland’s comprehensive (yet frequently behind the scenes) support for that country; by the large-scale and aggressive electoral campaign; and, finally, by Poland’s stance to the European Union (EU) discussions on migration and the shared response to it. One of the most striking signs of difficulties in the Polish economy in 2022 and 2023 was high inflation and the rising cost of living. These were followed by increasing poverty levels, pervasive ideological divisions running deep across society, and an overall confusion—indeed, an explosive combination a few months prior to the parliamentary elections scheduled to take place in late 2023. </p>
          <p>Statistical data are a small and superficial reflection of the economic and social realities. The selection of data is always subjective, several combinations of data are feasible, and each of them is likely to present a different picture of the economy and society. Data are also subject to manipulation, and indeed propaganda, exemplified by an inscription on the front wall of the National Bank of Poland (Narodowy Bank Polski—NBP) in the centre of the capital, Warsaw: `The key reasons behind inflation: (1) Russian aggression on Ukraine. (2) The pandemic and its implications. Blaming the NBP and the government for that is the Kremlin’s narrative.’ This direct citation suggests that political manoeuvring, ideology, short-termism and personal ambition strongly influence the trajectory of developments in the Polish economy today. This essay points to only some of these issues.</p>
          <p>Any analysis of the current economic and political situation in Poland requires the twin notions of transition and transformation to be taken into consideration. Again, in present-day Poland, fractured and divided by politics and ideology, two opposing views of the nature, tools and results of transition and transformation have emerged over the past few years, thus turning an extraordinary set of successful reforms into an instrument of resentment and political competition. As the obligation for Poland to adopt the euro looms on the very distant horizon, the same debates are fuelled by the question of eurozone accession, and by the relevance of EU membership in general. The prevalent attitudes towards the EU of contention, disregard and dissension, in several ways resembles the attitudes of the Hungarian Government, and they increasingly characterize Poland’s behaviour in the EU forum. As the following sections demonstrate, the macroeconomic data, such as on Poland’s fiscal position, drawn from the Statistical Office of the EU (Eurostat) and other sources, attest to that.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Growth Rates</heading>
          <p>Following an uninterrupted path of economic growth, as reflected by gross domestic product (GDP) during 1990-2019, Poland recorded a contraction in GDP of 2.2% in 2020. The economy recovered in 2021 to record a growth rate of 6.9%, and the economy grew by 5.1% in 2022. However, the European Commission’s growth forecasts of 0.7% for 2023 and 2.7% for 2024 were cautiously optimistic. Economic activity exceeded its annual 2019 level in 2021. Growth in 2023 was mainly driven by net exports and investment. Poland’s exceptional growth path until 2020 can be attributed to the deep structural reforms introduced in the early 1990s, which left the Polish economy free from the burden of over-regulation, open, investment-friendly, and aligned with the principles of prudent macroeconomic policy. Under these conditions, financial support from the EU budget helped the economy to thrive. Specifically, over the period 2004-22, total payments from the EU totalled more than €146,510m. This was in addition to about €60,000m. in pre-accession aid that Poland received in 2000-04. Thus, since 2004 aid received averaged approximately 2% of Polish GDP annually. Most of the transfers originated in the EU’s Cohesion Policy, on the one hand from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), and on the other hand—given the size of the Polish agricultural sector—from the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), especially through the direct payments instrument. The analysis of financial support received needs to take account of funds committed and disbursed, and thus of the absorption rate. In the case of Poland, the latter, at the level of 91%, was very high, attesting to the efficiency of the domestic institutional infrastructure.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Public Finance</heading>
          <p>Fundamental to macroeconomic analysis is the Government’s fiscal standing or public finance. This is monitored by the European Commission and the Council of the EU in line with provisions on the Excessive Deficit Procedure (EDP), under the terms of the EU’s Stability and Growth Pact. In this context, the key nominal benchmarks are defined by the government deficit-to-GDP ratio, set in the Maastricht convergence criteria at 3%, and the debt-to-GDP ratio, set at 60%, accordingly. In the case of Poland, the government deficit as a proportion of GDP, according to Eurostat data, was 6.9% in 2020, but declined to 1.8% 2021 and stabilized at 3.7% in 2022. However, the European Commission forecast the government deficit in Poland at 5.0% in 2023 and 3.7% in 2024. The evolution of the values has been driven by developments in Poland’s domestic and external contexts, including an expansionary fiscal policy, the COVID-19 pandemic and the war in Ukraine. In brief, therefore, Poland is one of the 14 EU member states that do not fulfil the deficit criterion of 3% of GDP. Nevertheless, according to the European Commission’s interpretation, the deficit is exceptional, in that it may be attributed to measures taken by the Government to cushion the economic and social impact of high energy prices, and to provide humanitarian assistance to those fleeing Ukraine. </p>
          <p>Indeed, in 2022 Poland continued to support the recovery with investments financed by the EU’s Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF). The RRF grants and other EU funds thus amounted to 1.0% of GDP in 2022, compared with 1.3% in 2021. Nationally financed investment provided an expansionary contribution of 0.2 percentage points to the fiscal picture, while the growth in nationally financed primary current expenditure (net of new revenue measures) provided an expansionary contribution of 2.3 percentage points. This significant expansionary contribution included the additional fiscal policy measures to mitigate the economic and social impact of the increase in energy prices (with an additional net budgetary cost of 1.9% of GDP), as well as the costs of offering temporary protection to displaced persons from Ukraine (0.5% of GDP). Poland therefore sufficiently kept under control the growth in nationally financed current expenditure. However, even if the European Commission’s assessment of the performance of the Polish economy is neutral, the expansionary fiscal measures, e.g. those related to the family support programme and other benefits (see below), are likely to increase the pressure on public finance, and so Poland might become to subject to the EDP, should the European Commission decide to reinstate it in 2024.</p>
          <p>As regards the debt-to-GDP issue, Poland still fulfils the 60% benchmark. However, it is the dynamics of debt-to-GDP growth that is a matter of concern. That is, while in 2019 the debt-to-GDP ratio was 45.7%, it rose to 57.2% in 2020, 53.6% in 2021 and 49.1% in 2022. The forecasts for 2023 and 2024 were 50.5% and 53.0%, respectively. The debt sustainability analysis indicates medium risks over the medium term. Moreover, the structural reforms under the Next Generation EU post-pandemic instrument and the RRF, if fully implemented, could have a further positive impact on GDP growth in the coming years, and therefore help to mitigate debt sustainability challenges. Specifically, since the nominal GDP growth forecast is positive, even with a sizeable increase in interest rate costs, financing risks are modest. This is to be attributed to the fact that financing conditions stabilized in 2022, that more than 80% of the revised state budget for 2022 has been financed, and that financing is accessible in local markets.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Other Indicators</heading>
          <p>The balance on Poland’s current account was negative in 2022, with a deficit equivalent to 3.3% of GDP, a development on a par with EU-level developments, where 19 countries recorded deficits. The current account balance is a useful measure that reflects a country’s competitiveness, as measured by demand for the goods and services that it exports. Notably, while Poland recorded a deficit in revenue on the balance of trade in goods, at the same time it recorded a surplus in trade in services. Data published by the NBP in April revealed one of the largest current account deficits that Poland has recorded over the past few years (as measured in month-on-month terms), totalling €3,924m. in April, compared with a surplus of €1,282m. recorded in the same month of the previous year. The balance on goods swung to a €2,466m. deficit from a €1,211m. surplus 12 months previously, and the surplus on the balance of services narrowed to €2,236m. from €2,302m. At the same time, the primary income deficit rose to €2,844m. from €2,150m. while the secondary income shortfall widened to €850m. from €81m. The war in Ukraine is a powerful justification for several developments in the economy. However, it is possible that the conflict in Poland’s immediate neighbourhood had simply exacerbated trends that had long been unfolding under the surface. Here, the issue of declining competitiveness, driven on the one hand by inflation (see below) and related increases in production costs, and on the other hand by increases in taxation, should be highlighted. Paradoxically, while the 2022 `Polish Deal’ tax reform was thought to have lowered the tax burden, practice suggests that is not the case. Sectoral developments, and regimes governing specific business sectors, such as gaming, effectively hamper their development, while also discouraging foreign direct investment (FDI).</p>
          <p>
      A typical analysis of the macroeconomic environment also requires the consideration of rates of employment, unemployment and inflation. The annual change in the employment rate in Poland indicated a rise from 75.4% in 2021 to 76.7% in 2022. In general, Poland thus meets the targets for employment levels (ages 24-64) set annually by the European Commission. The data for unemployment in Poland are also positive, placing Poland well below the average for unemployment in the EU. For example, the rate of unemployment in Poland, according to Eurostat data, was 3.2% in 2020, 3.4% in 2021 and 2.9% in 2022. In May 2023 the unemployment rate was 2.5%, the lowest in the EU, compared with an average of 5.9% in the EU-27, and 6.5% in the euro area. In brief, unemployment remains at historically low levels, among the lowest in the EU, thus giving rise to acute labour shortages. However, surveys suggest that enterprises are having difficulties in finding people with the right skills, pointing to significant skills mismatches. Therefore, when discussing employment, it is useful to address the question of the impact of education on employment. In the case of Poland, data suggests that people with tertiary education represent nearly 40% of all employed people, compared with a rate of 58.9% in Ireland and 25% in Romania. Clearly, official unemployment statistics include neither individuals who have moved to agriculture and/or (whether voluntarily or not) to self-employment, nor those who work in non-standard areas of employment. The outward economic migration of Poles, providing remittances of some €649m. 
      <!--according to Trading Economics-->
      in the fourth quarter of 2022, or 0.9% of GDP, also has an influence on the statistics.
    </p>
          <p>In 2022 self-employed people in Poland accounted for around 18.5% (around 13.5m. people) of the professionally active population (compared with an average of 14% in the EU), and the percentage is higher among men. Notably, in 2021 27.7% of self-employed people were at risk of poverty and social exclusion (compared with rates of 70.7% in Romania and 7.7% in Hungary). As for the labour market, Poland is among the EU member states with the lowest (unadjusted) gender pay gaps, of 4.5% in 2021, compared with, for example, 20.2% in Estonia. Attention needs to be paid to the percentage of professionally inactive women in the 25-34-year age group, who represent the largest group in the labour market, totalling around 443,000 in the fourth quarter of 2020. Many such women had decided to stay at home to raise and care for their families, a decision frequently motivated by the lavish `Family 500+’ programme. Under the scheme, which was introduced by the Government in 2016, and expanded in scope in 2019, and again in 2023, parents receive a monthly subsidy of 500 Polish złoty (approximately €110) for each child until it reaches adulthood. The family support package is to increase to 800 Polish złoty in January 2024, thus generating an additional impact on the budget of around 0.7% of GDP). The long-term benefits of this programme for population growth cannot be ascertained. Yet, the programme constitutes a substantial tool of the electoral campaign which the current Government of the Prawo i Sprawiedliwość (PiS—Law and Justice) party launched in advance of the 2023 elections.</p>
          <p>
      From a different perspective, Poland’s labour market has been attractive to foreign workers for a long time. Official data indicated that by the end of June 2023 more than 1.06m. foreigners were registered and insured with the Polish Social Insurance Institution (Zakład Ubezpieczeń Społecznych—ZUS), marking an increase of 22% compared with January the same year. About 744,000 of these were Ukrainians, of whom around 390,000 were men. Practice suggests that the number of registered workers tends to be counterbalanced by that of non-registered workers. With regard to workers from Ukraine, many of them decided not to register, and not to use the legal protection status granted to them by Poland due to war, in order to maintain the opportunity of travelling back and forth to their families across the border. From the Russian Federation’s invasion of Ukraine on 24 February 2022 to July 2023, more than 12.7m. refugees from Ukraine arrived in Poland. Accordingly, apart from the data provided by ZUS, it is difficult to estimate the number of Ukrainian workers in the Polish labour market. The situation is confused because, due to differences in salary levels and demand for labour in specific sectors, such as construction and transport, many newly arrived
      
       people prefer to move to Germany, where wages are higher.
    </p>
          <p>The war in Ukraine has been a source of several pressures on the Polish economy, yet statistics are not readily available. Essentially, Poland has been among the countries most directly involved in the provision of bilateral aid to Ukraine (amounting to 0.6% of GDP, compared with Lithuania’s 1.2%) since the beginning of the war in February 2022. Poland’s commitments have included military aid (€2,400m.), financial aid (€930m.), and humanitarian aid (€170m.). Whereas some of these donor commitments are yet to be disbursed, substantial aid has been made directly available to Ukrainians arriving to Poland. This includes access to all public services, including education, health care, social insurance, together with additional support programmes including summer holiday schemes, etc. Indeed, the cost of offering temporary protection to displaced persons from Ukraine, which (according to European Commission estimates) was equivalent to 0.6% of GDP in 2022 and 0.8% in 2023, had an impact on the government deficit. In addition, in accordance with the 2022 Homeland Defence Act, expenditure on national defence increased from the planned 2.2% of GDP in 2022 to 3.0% of GDP in 2023. Interestingly, amid a context of several high-ranking officers with plans for retirement in 2022 and 2023, the Government proposed a large financial incentives package, effectively halting a wave of retirement in the Polish military.</p>
          <p>
      Inflation is an issue that requires very careful analysis. The inflation rate in 2022, according to the European Commission, 
      <!--8.8% according to stats-->
      was 13.2% and it is expected to remain one of the highest in the EU, with forecast rates of 11.7% in 2023 and 6.0% in 2024. Research has identified the energy-price shock in 2022, global supply-chain disruptions and growth in global commodity prices as the principal factors driving inflation across Europe, including Poland. However, inflationary pressures in the Polish economy have been mounting for quite some time, driven by an expansionary, ideologically driven, fiscal policy, such as the Family 500+ programme, and slow monetary policy responses. The fact that Poland is not a member of the euro area, and the pressures on the złoty and its corresponding depreciation have added to inflationary trends in Poland. With inflation levels being significant, consumers have begun to take inflation into account when making market decisions, thus risking the rate being pushed up even further. In this context, the predominant question is whether monetary policy measures will be effective. 
    </p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Fiscal and Monetary Policies</heading>
          <p>
      In 2021 the Council of the EU recommended that Poland pursue a supportive fiscal stance in 2022, including through the stimulus provided by the RRF, and preserve nationally financed investment. Poland’s total allocation under the RRF was €35,400m. (€23,900m. in grants and €11,500m. in loans). This financing was designed to foster Poland’s economic recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, and finance the EU-mandated green and digital transitions. Poland’s plan designated 42.7% of its total allocation to measures that support climate objectives, and 21.3% to measures that support the digital transition. In 2022 the fiscal stance was expansionary by 3.4% of GDP, as recommended by the Council. Poland supported the recovery by making use of the RRF to finance additional investment.
      <!--https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/HTML/?uri=CELEX:32022H0901(21)-->
      The contribution to economic activity of expenditure financed by the RRF and other EU funds was projected to increase by 0.1 percentage points of GDP compared with 2021. Nationally financed investment was projected to provide an expansionary contribution to the fiscal stance of 0.3 percentage points in 2022. On the revenue side, the cut in the personal income tax rate under the Polish Deal (equivalent to 0.7% of GDP) and the decrease in the corporate income tax rate (0.1% of GDP) were projected to contribute to the expansionary fiscal stance. The higher increase in consumer prices compared with the GDP deflator was expected to affect the expansionary contribution of nationally financed primary current expenditure in 2022 by increasing spending on government consumption of goods and services.
    </p>
          <p>As for monetary policy, in response to developments in the global economy and domestically, in January 2022 the Monetary Policy Council (MPC) of the NBP increased the reference rate of interest by 0.50 percentage points, to 2.25%. At the same time, the Council set the remaining NBP interest rates at the following levels: the lombard rate at 2.75%; the deposit rate at 1.75%; the rediscount rate at 2.30%; and the discount rate at 2.35%. As in the previous year, analysts continued to suggest that the MPC had not raised levels far enough, and that accordingly—considering the increasing rate of inflation—further increases in the interest rates were needed.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Quality of Governance and Relations with the EU</heading>
          <p>Discussion of economic indicators must also include the consideration of factors such as the quality of governance, rule of law, etc. Rating agencies evaluate Poland positively: for example, in June 2023 Fitch Ratings affirmed Poland’s long-term foreign-currency issuer default rating at 'A−' with a stable outlook. Nevertheless, there is a perception that not all is well in Poland. The following offers a brief summary of selected issues. With regard to society, during 1990-2019 Poland’s value on the Human Development Index (HDI) compiled by the United Nations Development Programme increased from 0.718 to 0.880, representing a rise of 22.6%. Accordingly, in 2018 Poland ranked 35th out of 189 countries and territories. With a score of 0.876, Poland ranked 34th in the 2023 HDI. In line with Eurostat data, in 2022 the Gini coefficient (which is used to measure the distribution of income throughout the population on a scale between 0.0 and 1.0) was 0.26 (compared with 0.31 in 2012, and 0.27 in 2020). As for the percentage of the population at risk of poverty or social exclusion (by income quintile and household composition), the share was 16.0% in 2022, compared with rates of 34.0% in Romania, 26.0% in Greece and 12% in the Czech Republic (12.0%). The most recent Rule of Law Report, published by the European Commission in July 2023, highlighted that serious concerns persist related to the independence of the Polish judiciary. These concerns have been confirmed by rulings delivered by the European Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights. There are also serious doubts as to the compliance of a number of Supreme Court judges with the requirements of a tribunal established by law. Several judges continue to be subject to disciplinary investigations and proceedings and forced transfers. Indeed, the Commission referred Poland to the Court of Justice for violations of EU law by the Constitutional Tribunal and its case law. Other concerns exist. For instance, in May 2023 the parliament adopted a law empowering a special administrative committee to deprive individuals of the right to hold public office related to the handling of public funds for up to 10 years if they were considered to have acted under Russian influence. Informally known as `Lex-Tusk’, the law was widely believed to have been designed to prevent certain opposition figures holding viable claims to compete with the ruling PiS from participating in the 2023 parliamentary elections (notably including former Prime Minister Donald Tusk). No less important is the anti-abortion regime in place in Poland today. In accordance with its provisions, the life of the foetus with terminal congenital disorders is prioritized over the life of the mother. Several deaths have been attributed to women being denied timely abortion. As regards the independence of media, in 2022 Poland was ranked 66th of 180 countries in the World Press Freedom Index (compared with 64th in 2021), with the Government being identified as interfering with the work of independent media outlets and journalists. Other instances of democratic backsliding could also be cited. As a positive correlation between democracy, freedom and the market economy has been confirmed, these instances have a significant impact on the Polish economy.</p>
     </gen-section>
</country-survey>