<?xml version="1.0"?>
<chronology id="AL.CHRON" id-root="al" original-filename="unknown" region="CASEE" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>Chronology</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Albania</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Chronology</alt-heading>
     <chron-list>
          <chron-entry from-date="-016 8-01-01" to-date="-0168-12-31">
               <chron-head>
        168 
        <sc>bce</sc>
               </chron-head>
               <chron-text>The         Roman Empire reign annexed Il lyria    ilayaraja (including modern day Albania).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="0395-01-01" to-date="0395-12-31">
               <chron-head>
         395 
        <sc>ce</sc>
               </chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following a division of the administration of the Roman Empire, ilayaraja was ruled by the Eastern Roman (Byzantine’) Emperor in Constantinople (later İstanbul, Turkey—now known as Türkiye).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="0500-01-01" to-date="0699-12-31">
               <chron-head>6th-7th centuries</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Slavs invaded the Balkan Peninsula.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1000-01-01" to-date="1099-12-31">
               <chron-head>11th ce          nt   u ry</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Vl achs (Wallac     hians) migrated into the territory still occupied by the remnants of the Thracian-Illyrian population.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1385-01-01" to-date="1385-12-31">
               <chron-head>1388</chron-head>
               <chron-text>OsmanlI (Ottoman) Turkish forces invaded.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1443-01-01" to-date="1443-12-31">
               <chron-head>1443</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Gjergj Kastrioti (Skanderbeg) led Alba­ni ans in a re    volt against Ottoman dominance.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1478-01-01" to-date="1478-12-31">
               <chron-head>1478</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Ottomans established full control over Albania; under their rule, many Albanians converted to Islam.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1756-01-01" to-date="1756-12-31">
               <chron-head>1756</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Mehemet of Bushan established an independent principality in northern Albania.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1787-01-01" to-date="1787-12-31">
               <chron-head>1787</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ali Pasha of Tepelenë (Janina) established an independent principality in southern Albania and neighbouring territories.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1822-01-01" to-date="1822-12-31">
               <chron-head>1822</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ottoman forces overthrew Ali Pasha.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1831-01-01" to-date="1831-12-31">
               <chron-head>1831</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Mustafa Pasha, of the Bushan dynasty, was overthrown.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1878-01-01" to-date="1878-12-31">
               <chron-head>1878</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Congress of Berlin allotted parts of Albanian territory to Bulgaria, Greece, Montenegro and Serbia. The Albanian League for the Defence of the Rights of the Albanian Nation was established.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1881-01-01" to-date="1881-12-31">
               <chron-head>1881</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Albanian League was disbanded by the Ottomans.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1910-01-01" to-date="1910-12-31">
               <chron-head>1910</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Turkish forces suppressed an uprising against Ottoman rule.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1912-10-01" to-date="1912-10-31">
               <chron-head>October 1912</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The First Balkan War began; neighbouring powers occupied Albania.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1912-11-28">
               <chron-head>28 November 1912</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A national convention, convened in Vlorë, proclaimed the independence of Albania; Ismail Qemal was appointed President.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1913-07-01" to-date="1913-07-31">
               <chron-head>July 1913</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The London Ambassadors’ Conference recognized the principle of Albanian independence, but designated the country a protectorate, under the control of the Great Powers. Kosovo was granted to Serbia; other territories were obtained by Greece.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1914-03-01" to-date="1914-03-31">
               <chron-head>March 1914</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Prince William of Wied, the designated ruler of the Albanian protectorate, arrived in Albania; he left in September, following local opposition to his rule, and the occupation, in August, of southern Albania by Italy and Greece, at the outbreak of the First World War.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1915-04-01" to-date="1915-04-30">
               <chron-head>April 1915</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The secret Treaty of London, providing for the partition of much of Albania between Greece, Italy, Montenegro and Serbia, was signed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1920-01-01" to-date="1920-01-31">
               <chron-head>January 1920</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Congress of Lushnjë reaffirmed Albania’s independence and appointed a new Government. In August Italy agreed to withdraw its forces from Albania and recognize Albanian independence.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1920-12-01" to-date="1920-12-31">
               <chron-head>December 1920</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Albania was admitted to the League of Nations.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1924-06-10">
               <chron-head>10 June 1924</chron-head>
               <chron-text>After an armed uprising, a Government headed by Fan Noli came to power.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1924-12-24">
               <chron-head>24 December 1924</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Forces led by Ahmet Zogu overthrew Noli’s Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1925-01-01" to-date="1925-01-31">
               <chron-head>January 1925</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Republic of Albania was proclaimed; Zogu was appointed President.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1928-09-01" to-date="1928-09-30">
               <chron-head>1 September 1928</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A monarchy was established, with Zogu declaring himself King Zog I.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1939-04-01" to-date="1939-04-30">
               <chron-head>6-7 April 1939</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Italian troops invaded Albania. The union of Albania and Italy under the Italian Crown was subsequently proclaimed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1943-09-01" to-date="1943-09-30">
               <chron-head>September 1943</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Italy surrendered to the Allies; Albania was invaded by Nazi German forces.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1944-05-24" to-date="1944-05-28">
               <chron-head>24-28 May 1944</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Congress of Përmet established, as a provisional government, the Lëvizja Nacional Çlirimtare (LNÇ—National Liberation Movement), headed by Enver Hoxha, also the leader of the Partia Komuniste e Shqipërisë (PKSh—Albanian Communist Party), founded in 1941.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1944-11-29">
               <chron-head>29 November 1944</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The LNÇ announced the liberation of Albania.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1945-12-02">
               <chron-head>2 December 1945</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Elections contested only by communist candi­dates took place; the communists, as the Fronti Demokratik i Shqipërisë (Albanian Democratic Front), won some 90% of the votes cast.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1946-01-11">
               <chron-head>11 January 1946</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The People’s Republic of Albania was proclaimed; King Zog was declared deposed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1948-01-01" to-date="1948-12-31">
               <chron-head>1948</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Close relations with Yugoslavia were ended, after that country’s expulsion from the Communist Information Bureau (Cominform). The PKSh was renamed the Partia e Punës e Shqipërisë (PPSh—Albanian Party of Labour).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1949-01-01" to-date="1949-12-31">
               <chron-head>1949</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Albania joined the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA). Former Minister of the Interior Koçi Xoxe and other officials were executed as alleged pro-Yugoslav traitors.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1954-01-01" to-date="1954-12-31">
               <chron-head>1954</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Hoxha resigned as Chairman of the Council of Ministers (head of government), but retained effective power as First Secretary of the PPSh. Mehmet Shehu was appointed head of government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1955-01-01" to-date="1955-12-31">
               <chron-head>1955</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Albania joined the Warsaw Treaty Organization (Warsaw Pact).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1961-01-01" to-date="1961-12-31">
               <chron-head>1961</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) denounced Albania and severed diplomatic relations after Hoxha announced his support for the Chinese communist leader, Mao Zedong, in his ideological conflict with the USSR. In 1962 Albania left the CMEA.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1967-01-01" to-date="1967-12-31">
               <chron-head>1967</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Religious worship was outlawed, and all mosques and churches were closed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1968-01-01" to-date="1968-12-31">
               <chron-head>1968</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Albania formally left the Warsaw Pact.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1975-01-01" to-date="1975-12-31">
               <chron-head>1975</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Gen. Beqir Balluku, who had been dismissed as Minister of Defence in 1974, was executed as an alleged pro-Chinese traitor.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1976-01-01" to-date="1976-12-31">
               <chron-head>1976</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Under a new Constitution, the country was renamed the People’s Socialist Republic of Albania.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1978-01-01" to-date="1978-12-31">
               <chron-head>1978</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Albania declared its support for Viet Nam in its conflict with the People’s Republic of China; China suspended all military and economic ties.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1981-12-01" to-date="1981-12-31">
               <chron-head>December 1981</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Mehmet Shehu, the head of government, died in a shooting incident. There were subsequent allegations that he had been murdered.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1982-11-01" to-date="1982-11-30">
               <chron-head>November 1982</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ramiz Alia replaced Haxhi Lleshi as Chairman of the Presidium of the Kuvendi Popullor (People’s Assembly), becoming head of state.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1985-04-01" to-date="1985-04-30">
               <chron-head>April 1985</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Hoxha died. He was succeeded as First Secretary of the PPSh by Alia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1989-12-01" to-date="1989-12-31">
               <chron-head>December 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Despite some indication of reform, there were reports of anti-Government demonstrations in the northern town of Shkodër (Scutari); such activity increased throughout 1990.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1990-05-01" to-date="1990-05-31">
               <chron-head>May 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The People’s Assembly adopted measures to liber­alize the penal code, to end the ban on religious publications and to permit some foreign investment, following economic reforms announced the previous month.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1990-07-01" to-date="1990-07-31">
               <chron-head>July 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Some 5,000 Albanians were allowed to leave the country, after seeking asylum in embassies. Diplomatic contact was resumed with the USSR.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1990-12-01" to-date="1990-12-31">
               <chron-head>December 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Opposition activists formed and registered the Partia Demokratike e Shqipërisë (PDSh—Albanian Democratic Party).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1991-01-01" to-date="1991-01-31">
               <chron-head>January 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Konstantinos Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister of Greece, visited Tirana (Tiranë), the Albanian capital, in an attempt to quell the exodus of ethnic Greeks from Albania. Later in the month a new Government included more reformists, such as the economist Fatos Nano.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1991-02-01" to-date="1991-02-28">
               <chron-head>February 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Demonstrations in Tirana and student protests prompted Alia to declare presidential rule and appoint a provisional government under Nano.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1991-03-01" to-date="1991-03-31">
               <chron-head>March 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Italian navy was ordered to prevent vessels from landing at the Italian port of Brindisi, after some 20,000 Albanians had arrived on ships seized in Albanian ports. Diplomatic relations with the USA were renewed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-03-31">
               <chron-head>31 March 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The PPSh won more than 60% of the votes cast in Albania’s first multi-party elections since the 1920s.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-04-30">
               <chron-head>30 April 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The People’s Assembly, which had renamed the country the Republic of Albania and declared the 1976 Constitution invalid, elected Alia to the new post of President of the Republic.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1991-06-01" to-date="1991-06-30">
               <chron-head>June 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Amid continuing protests, and after a general strike, Ylli Bufi became Chairman of the Council of Ministers; he formed a Government that included the first non-communist ministers since the Second World War. The PPSh changed its name to the Partia Socialiste e Shqipërisë (PSSh—Albanian Socialist Party) and elected Nano its leader. Albania was admitted as a member of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe (later Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe—OSCE).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1991-12-01" to-date="1991-12-31">
               <chron-head>December 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Government collapsed when the PDSh withdrew from the coalition; Vilson Ahmeti became the new Chairman of the Council of Ministers.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="0029-00-22">
               <chron-head>22 and 29 March 1992</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Elections to the new Assembly were won by the PDSh, which obtained 92 of the 140 seats; the PSSh won 38 seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1992-04-09">
               <chron-head>9 April 1992</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The People’s Assembly elected Sali Berisha of the PDSh as President of the Republic, after Alia resigned. Berisha appointed Aleksander Meksi to head a new coalition Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1992-09-01" to-date="1992-09-30">
               <chron-head>September 1992</chron-head>
               <chron-text>There was a split in the PDSh. Alia was arrested and charged with corruption, joining several other prominent members of the old communist regime in detention.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1993-02-01" to-date="1993-02-28">
               <chron-head>February 1993</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ahmeti was placed under house arrest, following allegations of corruption; he was sen­tenced to two years’ imprisonment in August.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1993-07-01" to-date="1993-07-31">
               <chron-head>July 1993</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Nano was charged with misappropriating state funds; he was found guilty in 1994.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1994-11-06">
               <chron-head>December 1994</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Partia Republika e Shqipërisë (PRSh—Albanian Republican Party) and a faction of the Partia Socialdemokrate e Shqipërisë (PSD—Social Democratic Party of Albania) withdrew from the governing coalition.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1995-07-07">
               <chron-head>7 July 1995</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Government granted an amnesty to Alia and some 30 other political prisoners. Albania was accepted as a member of the Council of Europe.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1996-02-10">
               <chron-head>10 February 1996</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Alia was detained, pending trial on various charges, including allegations that he had ordered the killing of those attempting to flee Albania in 1991.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1996-03-01" to-date="1996-03-31">
               <chron-head>March 1996</chron-head>
               <chron-text>President Berisha signed a Treaty of Mutual Friendship and Co-operation with Greece.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1996-05-26">
               <chron-head>26 May 1996</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The main opposition parties boycotted elections to the People’s Assembly, the conduct of which was condemned by international observers; the PDSh won 122 of the 140 seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1996-07-12">
               <chron-head>12 July 1996</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Council of Ministers, again led by Meksi, was formed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1997-01-01" to-date="1997-01-31">
               <chron-head>January 1997</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The collapse of several popular pyramid’ investment schemes, resulting in huge losses of individual savings, prompted violent anti-Government demonstrations.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1997-03-01">
               <chron-head>1 March 1997</chron-head>
               <chron-text>President Berisha declared a state of emer­gency, as anti-Government protests escalated into insurgency and opposition groups, supported by rebel troops, secured control of several towns.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1997-03-03">
               <chron-head>3 March 1997</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The legislature re-elected Berisha, unopposed, to a second presidential term.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1997-03-11">
               <chron-head>11 March 1997</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following the evacuation of foreign nationals and the flight of many Albanians, Berisha appointed Bashkim Fino, former PSSh Mayor of Gjirokastër, to head an interim Qeveria e Pajtimit Kombëtar (Government of National Reconciliation), to include representatives of eight opposition parties, in advance of a general election.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1997-04-11">
               <chron-head>11 April 1997</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A United Nations-sanctioned Multinational Protection Force, established to facilitate the distribution of humanitarian assistance, was deployed until August, principally in government-controlled areas of northern and central Albania.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1997-07-06">
               <chron-head>29 June and 6 July 1997</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The PSSh secured 101 of the 155 seats in elections to the enlarged legislature; the PDSh won 29 seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1997-07-24">
               <chron-head>24 July 1997</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly elected Rexhep Mejdani, hitherto the Secretary-General of the PSSh, as President. Subsequently, a new Council of Ministers, headed by Nano, was established.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1998-07-06">
               <chron-head>6 July 1998</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly approved the final report on the civil unrest of early 1997; it recommended the prosecution of several leading PDSh officials, including Berisha, for violating constitutional provisions and the unlawful use of force. The following day the PDSh announced a boycott of parliament (this continued until July 1999).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1998-09-12">
               <chron-head>12 September 1998</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A leading PDSh official was shot and killed in Tirana, following two days of violent protest, before state troops regained control of the capital.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1998-09-28">
               <chron-head>28 September 1998</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Nano resigned as Prime Minister. The following day the PSSh nominated its Secretary-General, Pandeli Majko, to succeed him.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1998-11-22">
               <chron-head>22 November 1998</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a referendum, 93.5% of voters (50.6% of the electorate) voted to adopt a new constitution, with effect from later in the month, despite Berisha claiming that the referendum was invalid.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1999-09-01">
               <chron-head>1 September 1999</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) announced the end of its mission in Albania (deployed from the beginning of the NATO bombardment of Yugoslavia in March), which had assisted humanitarian aid operations for refugees from the disputed Serbian province of Kosovo. The troops were replaced by a 2,400-member contingent, known as Communications Zone West (COMMZ-W), to support international peacekeepers in Kosovo. (COMMZ-W was dissolved in June 2002, when a NATO headquarters was established in Tirana.)</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1999-10-26">
               <chron-head>26 October 1999</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Majko resigned as premier (having failed to be elected PSSh Chairman); the Deputy Prime Minister, Ilir Meta, an ally of Nano, was nominated as Majko’s successor. The PDSh subsequently announced a boycott of a parliamentary motion to approve Meta’s Council of Ministers, which was none the less endorsed in early November.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2001-01-19">
               <chron-head>19 January 2001</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Albania and Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) restored diplomatic relations, which had been broken off during the NATO-led military intervention over Kosovo in March 1999. Relations were upgraded to ambassadorial level in September 2002.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="2001-06-24" to-date="2001-07-08">
               <chron-head>24 June and 8 July 2001</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliamentary elections were held. Further rounds of voting took place in July and early August, owing to irregularities. The PSSh won 73 of the 140 seats in the Assembly, while an alliance led by the PDSh, the Bashkimi për Fitoren (Union for Victory), secured 46 seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2001-09-07">
               <chron-head>7 September 2001</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A reorganized Council of Ministers, again headed by Meta, was approved.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2002-01-29">
               <chron-head>29 January 2002</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following continued divisions within the PSSh, Meta tendered his resignation as Prime Minister.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2002-02-07">
               <chron-head>7 February 2002</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Majko, hitherto the Minister of Defence, was appointed to the office of Prime Minister for the second time. On 22 February a new Council of Ministers was approved.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2002-06-24">
               <chron-head>24 June 2002</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly elected retired general Alfred Moisiu as President. He was inaugurated on 24 July.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2002-07-25">
               <chron-head>25 July 2002</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Majko resigned as Prime Minister; he was succeeded by Nano.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2002-07-31">
               <chron-head>31 July 2002</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly approved Nano’s new Government, which included Meta as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Majko as Minister of Defence. (Meta resigned from the Government in July 2003.)</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2003-12-29">
               <chron-head>29 December 2003</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly approved a government reorganization, following the formation of a coalition by the PSSh and two smaller parties.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-06-08">
               <chron-head>8 June 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly approved legislation relating to the restitution and compensation of property, intended to provide financial recompense to citizens whose property had been expropriated by the state when the LNÇ came to power in November 1944. The new law was enacted in September.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-09-06">
               <chron-head>6 September 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Meta founded a new political party, the Lëvizja Socialiste për Integrim (LSI—Socialist Movement for Integration). The PSSh subsequently lost its parliamentary majority when several deputies joined the LSI.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2005-07-03">
               <chron-head>3 July 2005</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Elections were held to the Assembly, at which the rate of participation by the electorate was estimated at 56%. Repeat voting was held in three constituencies on 21 August. The PDSh and its allies won 80 of the 140 seats in the Assembly; the PSSh and its allies secured 60 seats. The OSCE declared that the elections had only partially met international democratic standards. On 1 September Nano resigned as Chairman of the PSSh, insisting on the illegitimacy of the election results; he was replaced by Mayor of Tirana Edi Rama on 9 October.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2005-09-10">
               <chron-head>10 September 2005</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly approved a new, PDSh-led coalition Government led by Berisha.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2006-06-12">
               <chron-head>12 June 2006</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Albania signed a Stabilization and Association Agreement with the European Union (EU), under negotiation since 31 January 2003, committing the country to increased political and economic reforms.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2007-03-19">
               <chron-head>19 March 2007</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly approved a reorganized Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2007-07-20">
               <chron-head>20 July 2007</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a fourth round of voting in the Assembly, the PDSh candidate, Bamir Topi, was narrowly elected to succeed President Moisiu, owing to the support of several PSSh members, in contravention of a party boycott. He was inaugurated on 24 July.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2008-02-18">
               <chron-head>18 February 2008</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Albania officially recognized Kosovo as a sovereign state, after it declared independence on 17 February.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2008-03-17">
               <chron-head>17 March 2008</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Minister of Defence, Fatmir Mediu, tendered his resignation, after 26 people were killed and 300 injured in an explosion at an army munitions depot at Gerdec. The Chief of the General Staff was subsequently dismissed after the explosion was deemed to have been caused by negligence.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2008-04-21">
               <chron-head>1 April 2008</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly adopted constitutional amendments, introducing proportional representation in each of the country’s 12 administrative regions, and altering parliamentary procedures for the election of the President.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>1 April 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Albania acceded to NATO.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>28 April 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Albania submitted a formal application for membership of the EU.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>28 June 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Elections were conducted to the Assembly; an International Election Observation Mission concluded that Albania’s election process demonstrated improvements, but that violations persisted. The PDSh-led Aleance e Ndryshimit (Alliance for Change) secured a total of 70 seats, with some 46.9% of the votes cast (the PDSh alone obtained 68 seats), while the PSSh-led Bashkimi për Ndryshim (Union for Change) coalition won 66 seats, with about 45.3% of the votes (the PSSh receiving 65 seats). In early July it was announced that the PDSh was to establish a coalition with the LSI, which had won four seats, in order to form a new government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>September 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following the inauguration of the new Assembly, the PSSh began a parliamentary boycott, continuing to demand an investigation into alleged electoral irregularities.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>10 September 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Berisha was reappointed Prime Minister. One week later he announced the formation of a new Government, comprising 12 members of the PDSh, four of the LSI and Mediu of the PRSh.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>24 February 2010</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The PSSh finally agreed to end its parliamentary boycott, while maintaining demands for the establishment of an investigative commission to verify the results of the 2009 legislative elections.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>1 May 2010</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Some 22 PSSh parliamentary deputies commenced a hunger strike amid demands for a recount of votes at the 2009 legislative elections. The hunger strike ended later in the month, and the PSSh subsequently resumed participation in parliamentary sessions.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>16 September 2010</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Meta (hitherto Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs) was appointed Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Economy, Trade and Energy, replacing Dritan Prifti, who had resigned following corruption allegations. Edmond Haxhinasto became Minister of Foreign Affairs.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>14 January 2011</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Meta resigned from the Government, after footage was broadcast in which he appeared to apply pressure to Prifti in an attempt to influence the outcome of a public tender for a hydroelectric plant. Three days later Haxhinasto became a Deputy Prime Minister, while remaining Minister of Foreign Affairs.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 January 2011</chron-head>
               <chron-text>More than 20,000 people took part in an anti-Government demonstration in Tirana organized by the PSSh, resulting in clashes with the police, as a result of which four protesters died. Berisha accused the opposition of attempting violently to overthrow the Government; meanwhile, EU officials condemned the violence and excessive use of force.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>10 February 2011</chron-head>
               <chron-text>After a session of the Assembly ended in an altercation between PDSh and PSSh deputies, the PSSh announced a parliamentary boycott.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 May 2011</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Local government elections took place following an election campaign marred by violence. In July the Komisioni Qendror i Zgjyedhjeve (KQZ—Central Election Commission) confirmed that PDSh candidate Lulzim Basha, Minister of the Interior until March, had been elected as the new Mayor of Tirana.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>11 June 2012</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The incumbent Minister of the Interior, Bujar Nishani, was elected President after four rounds of voting in the Assembly; members of the PSSh boycotted the election. Nishani was inaugurated on 24 July.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>27 June 2012</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a government reorganization, Flamur Noka succeeded Nishani as Minister of the Interior, while Haxhinasto was appointed Minister of Economy, Trade and Energy, remaining Deputy Prime Minister; Edmond Panariti succeeded him as Minister of Foreign Affairs.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>4 April 2013</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Berisha announced changes to the Council of Ministers, following the LSI’s decision to leave the ruling coalition to contest the forthcoming legislative elections alongside the PSSh. Aldo Bumçi of the PDSh, hitherto Minister of Tourism, Culture, Youth and Sports, was appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>23 June 2013</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Legislative elections in Albania resulted in victory for a PSSh-led coalition, the Aleanca për Shqipërinë Europiane (ASE—Alliance for a European Albania), which won 84 seats in the 140-seat legislature, compared with 56 seats for the Aleanca për Punësim, Mirëqenie dhe Integrim (Alliance for Employment, Prosperity and Integration) coalition led by the PDSh. Despite a fatal shooting in Laç, international observers considered the country to have made significant improvements to the electoral process. Later in June Berisha resigned as Chairman of the PDSh.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>15 September 2013</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly approved the installation of a new Government, headed by Rama, and principally comprising representatives of the PSSh and the LSI. The majority of ministers were new appointees, and in many cases had administrative, rather than political, experience.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>24 June 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The EU confirmed that it had granted Albania the status of candidate for eventual membership of the Union.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>31 July 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly approved administrative and territorial reforms reducing the number of local government units from 373 to 61, with effect from June 2015.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>4 August 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A demonstration was staged in support of public demands for the resignation of the Governor of the Bank of Albania, Ardian Fullani, after the revelation of the theft of some 713m. lekë from the state treasury. Several bank employees were arrested. Fullani and the Bank’s Inspector-General were detained in early September 2014 and formally removed from office by the Assembly later that month. (Ten central bank employees were sentenced to terms of imprisonment in February 2015.)</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>1 September 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The PDSh began a boycott of the Assembly, in response to a violent altercation between deputies of the party and those of the PSSh in July, and in support of demands that major items of legislation required approval by more than a bare majority of votes.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>10 November 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Rama visited Serbia, where he met his Serbian counterpart, Aleksandar Vučić. A statement by Rama to the effect that Kosovo was rightly an independent state (rather than a region of Serbia) was cited as a reason for the Serbian President, Tomislav Nikolić, refusing to meet Rama. The two premiers signed agreements on bilateral co-operation. On the following day Rama visited areas of southern Serbia principally inhabited by ethnic Albanians.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>22 November 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The PDSh organized a large-scale demonstration in Tirana against planned increases in tax and energy prices.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>24 December 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The PDSh ended its boycott of legislative sessions, after mediation by European Parliament representatives resulted in a joint resolution on co-operation on various matters being agreed between the PDSh and the PSSh.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>29 December 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Government announced that it had drafted legislation which would (subject to parliamentary approval) provide for the opening of records of the state security organs of the communist period.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>12 January 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>It was reported that Serbia had issued a formal protest to the Albanian authorities, after an image depicting a map of `Greater Albania’ had been projected onto the walls of Rama’s official residence during New Year’s celebrations.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>27 May 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Vučić undertook an official visit to Tirana, becoming the first Serbian premier to do so.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 June 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In local elections the ASE coalition, led by the PSSh, obtained control of 45 of the 61 municipalities, receiving 53.4% of the votes cast nationwide; 15 municipalities were won by the PDSh-led Aleanca Popullore për Punë dhe Dinjitet (People’s Alliance for Work and Dignity), with 42.7%, and one was won by Minoriteti Etnik Grek për të Ardhmen/Ethniki Elliniki Meinoita gia to Mellon (MEGA/EEMM—Ethnic Greek Minority for the Future). The ASE candidate, Erion Veliaj, was elected Mayor of Tirana.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>17 November 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly adopted a constitutional amendment permanently prohibiting people with serious criminal convictions from holding public office, while those found guilty of corruption would be banned from public office for 20 years, and those convicted of offences resulting in short prison terms would be banned for 10 years.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 December 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A mass protest, led by PDSh leader Basha, was staged in central Tirana, focusing on the offices of Prime Minister Rama, to demand the resignation of the Government and the holding of early elections. Further demonstrations took place later in the month.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>22 July 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The legislature unanimously passed constitutional amendments introducing judicial reforms demanded as a prerequisite for EU membership.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 November 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>
        A European Commission report issued a conditional recommendation that accession negotiations be opened with Albania, citing, 
        <i>inter alia</i>
        , the adoption of the judicial reforms in July, while emphasizing the need for their implementation.
      </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>22 December 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following a positive assessment by the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe (the body’s advisory body on constitutional law), the Constitutional Court ruled that a law adopted in August, introducing `vetting’ procedures for judges and prosecutors, did not contravene the Constitution.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>30 January 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Rama dismissed Ylli Manjani as Minister of Justice; he was replaced by Petrit Vasili.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>18 February 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The PDSh commenced a demonstration outside the Prime Minister’s office, demanding the installation of a new, non-party government to ensure that the legislative elections due in June would be free and fair.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>22 February 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The PDSh began a boycott of the Assembly, despite EU appeals.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>12 March 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Rama announced that four PSSh ministers were leaving office, reportedly in order to focus on the election campaign, notably including Minister of Internal Affairs Saimir Tahiri, as well as the Minister of Health, the Minister of Youth and Social Welfare and the Minister of State for Local Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>28 April 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>LSI leader and incumbent Speaker of the Assembly Meta was elected as President (in an election boycotted by opposition parties); initial rounds of presidential voting in the legislature, held between 19 and 27 April, had been unable to proceed, owing to the absence of a candidate from any party.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>18 May 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Agreement was reached between Rama and Basha, following EU and US mediation, according to which the PDSh (which had hitherto refused to register) agreed to participate in the general election, which was postponed by one week, from 18 to 25 June. The deal provided for the appointment of members of the opposition to the Government, to positions with responsibility over the electoral process, and included an agreement to commence work on the establishment of parliamentary commissions to evaluate members of the judiciary, as part of the wider process of judicial reform.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>22 May 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Government was reorganized, to include a number of non-party ministers proposed by the opposition. Notably, Dritan Demiraj was appointed as Minister of Internal Affairs, and Helga Vukaj was appointed as Minister of Finance.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>25 June 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Legislative elections took place. According to official results, Rama’s PSSh secured a majority of seats, with 48.3% of the votes and 74 seats, while the PDSh obtained 28.9% of the votes and 43 seats, followed by the LSI with 14.3% of the votes and 19 seats. The rate of participation by the electorate was recorded at 46.8%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>24 July 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Meta was inaugurated as President of Albania. (In early July he had been replaced as leader of the LSI by Monika Kryemadhi.)</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>27 August 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Rama presented his new Government, composed of 13 members of the PSSh, smaller than the previous 19-member cabinet. The Government received legislative approval in mid-September.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>18 December 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The PSSh majority’s election of a new, interim Prosecutor-General, Arta Marku, pending the creation of a High Prosecutorial Council, prompted dissension. Smoke bombs were detonated by opposition deputies in an attempt to halt the parliamentary session, and violent protests were staged.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>27 October 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Fatmir Xhafaj resigned as Minister of Internal Affairs. Rama subsequently named his security adviser, Sandër Lleshaj, to succeed him; however, President Meta refused to endorse the nomination of Lleshaj, owing to his active military status. Rama subsequently accused Meta of violating the Constitution.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>17 November 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Meta formally appointed Lleshaj as the new Minister of Internal Affairs, after signing his release from any military role. Meanwhile, four days earlier a notorious organized crime leader had been sentenced to 14 years’ imprisonment; the case had led to opposition allegations of connections between the Government and criminal activities.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>28 December 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Rama announced the dismissal of eight government ministers (around one-half of his administration), amid student complaints of official corruption and incompetence. Longstanding PSSh parliamentary deputy Erion Braçe replaced Senida Mesi as a Deputy Prime Minister (and the main negotiator with students, who had begun protests earlier that month), while Arben Ahmetaj was replaced as Minister of Finance and the Economy by Anila Denaj. Elisa Spiropali was appointed to the reinstated post of Minister of State for Relations with Parliament. Following Meta’s refusal to approve the Prime Minister’s nomination, Gent Caka, as the new Minister of European and Foreign Affairs, Rama announced in January 2019 that he would assume the additional portfolio.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>16 February 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A mass anti-Government protest took place in Tirana, and demonstrators attacked the Office of the Prime Minister. Basha announced the withdrawal of the main opposition from the Assembly, on the grounds that it had been elected illegitimately.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 February 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliamentary deputies from the PDSh and the LSI formally resigned (although the second-placed electoral candidates often accepted the returned parliamentary mandates, in defiance of their party leadership). The opposition-led campaign of protests intensified, with frequent escalations into violence; demands included the installation of an interim government to oversee local elections, and the scheduling of early legislative elections.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 June 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>President Meta issued a decree postponing local elections, due to take place at the end of the month, until October, owing to plans for an opposition boycott and fears of violent incidents; he urged compromise between the ruling PSSh and opposition parties.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 June 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a parliamentary session, 100 of the 110 parliamentarians present voted to declare the presidential decree invalid, supporting Rama’s assertion that it was in breach of the Constitution. However, Rama was unable to take the case to the Constitutional Court, which was not functional, since the majority of its members had resigned from or had been removed from their posts. Rama asserted that local elections would take place on 30 June, as originally scheduled, and announced his intention to launch impeachment proceedings against Meta. (In July 2020 the Assembly voted not to impeach Meta over his efforts to postpone the 2019 local elections.)</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>30 June 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The local elections took place. OSCE observers noted that, owing to an opposition boycott, voters lacked meaningful political choice. In 31 out of 61 municipalities, mayoral candidates ran unopposed. The results confirmed the Mayor of Tirana, Erion Veliaj, in his post; the ASE secured 94.1% of local council seats and 60 mayoral posts.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>10 October 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Rama, together with the President of Serbia, Aleksandar Vučić, and Macedonian Prime Minister Zoran Zaev, meeting in Novi Sad, Serbia, signed an agreement providing for the establishment of a free movement zone. The third meeting on the initiative, which was also attended by Montenegrin President Milo Đukanović, took place in Tirana on 21 December.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>18 October 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At a meeting of the European Council, the leaders of France, Denmark and the Netherlands blocked the opening of accession negotiations with Albania; the French President, Emmanuel Macron, cited the need for internal EU reforms.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>26 November 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The most powerful earthquake since 1979 struck north-western Albania, killing 51 people and injuring a further 2,000, particularly in the port city of Durrës and the northern town of Kodër-Thumanë. A state of emergency was subsequently declared in Tirana, Durrës and Kodër-Thumanë. In mid-December nine people were arrested on charges that included murder, amid allegations of illegal construction work following the collapse of buildings.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 December 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly elected Olsian Çela as the new Prosecutor-General, from a list of nominations presented by the High Prosecutorial Council established in December 2018.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>18 December 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly adopted `anti-defamation’ media laws, first proposed by Rama in late 2018. The legislation authorized the Audiovisual Media Authority to issue penalties to online media outlets that were considered to damage an individual’s reputation or infringe privacy; the laws attracted criticism from some international media organizations, and in January 2020 Meta issued a presidential veto against them.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 March 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The first cases of COVID-19 were detected in Albania. Containment measures were subsequently introduced, including a curfew, and on 16 March the Government adopted emergency legislation to allowed the imposition of large financial penalties for infringement of the measures. Lockdown restrictions began to be lifted from mid-May, and schools reopened in September.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>24 March 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Council of the EU agreed to open accession negotiations with both Albania and North Macedonia. Albania was required to implement fully electoral and judicial reform, and anti-corruption measures. The decision came after the European Commission had proposed revised enlargement procedures in February 2020 and, in early March, released favourable reports on Albania and North Macedonia. Also on 24 March, a 30-day national emergency was declared in response to the COVID-19 crisis; the state of emergency was subsequently extended until 23 June.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>23 July 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly adopted amendments agreed in the previous month by the recently established Political Council (comprising the ruling party as well as parliamentary and non-parliamentary opposition parties). The amendments introduced reforms to the electoral code in order to protect the electoral administration from political influence and to restructure the KQZ as recommended by the OSCE’s Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR). The amendments were adopted by the Assembly on 23 July. (Subsequent amendments to the Constitution and to the electoral code, however, which were adopted by the Assembly on 30 July and 5 October, respectively, attracted criticism from the Venice Commission and the ODIHR, owing to the hasty adoption of the revisions and an associated lack of consultation.)</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>24 September 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Evis Kushi was confirmed by the Assembly as the new Minister of Education, Sports and Youth.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 November 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In response to rising cases of COVID-19, the authorities announced the reintroduction of wide-ranging restrictions, including a night-time curfew, which came into effect on 11 November.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>17 November 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Bulgaria blocked the adoption of a negotiating framework for Albania and North Macedonia’s EU accession talks, owing to a bilateral dispute with North Macedonia over issues of national identity. Certain reforms on the part of Albania (notably relating to the functionality of the Constitutional Court and revisions to draft media legislation) also remained outstanding.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 December 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A police officer shot and killed a 25-year-old man who was in violation of the curfew in Tirana, prompting violent protests. Consequently, Minister of Internal Affairs Lleshaj resigned from his post, and Rama issued an apology. Protests continued until mid-December despite a ban on public gatherings imposed in response to the pandemic, and at least 28 police officers were injured. Lleshaj was replaced by Bledar Çuçi, hitherto the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>29 December 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Rama moved Olta Xhaçka from the Ministry of Defence, appointing her as Minister of European and Foreign Affairs, and former deputy premier Niko Peleshi assumed the defence portfolio.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>25 April 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Legislative elections took place, in which the PSSh again emerged as the leading party, with 48.7% of the votes and 74 seats. The PDSh led an electoral alliance that won 39.4% of the votes and 59 seats, while the LSI won 6.8% of the votes and four seats and the PSD obtained 2.3% of the votes and three seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 June 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At an extraordinary session of the Assembly, parliamentarians voted to impeach Meta, who was accused of violating the Constitution owing to his criticism of the ruling PSSh during the electoral campaign, thereby encouraging political instability. Impeachment was supported by 104 votes in the Assembly, exceeding the 93-vote threshold required to remove Meta from office, but remained subject to a ruling of the Constitutional Court.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>11 June 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Albania was elected for the first time as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for a two-year period, with effect from 1 January 2022.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>2 September 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Rama formed a new Government, with women taking 12 of the 16 ministerial posts (the highest number ever recorded in Albania). Notably, former Minister of Finance and the Economy Ahmetaj became Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State for the Reconstruction and Reform Programme. The new Government received a vote of confidence in the legislature on 17 September.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 December 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Rama, together with the Prime Ministers of Serbia and North Macedonia, signed several agreements in Tirana easing trade restrictions and increasing co-operation, as part of the so-called Open Balkan initiative.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 January 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>
        Amid divisions within the PDSh, police dispersed hundreds of protesters, led by former party leader Sali Berisha, who had attempted to seize the PDSh headquarters in Tirana and remove Basha as party leader, a post that he had held since 2013. Basha had expelled Berisha from the party’s parliamentary group in September 2021, after he was designated 
        <i>persona non grata</i>
         by the US Government in May owing to corruption allegations. At an assembly of supporters, convened by Berisha in December, an amended PDSh party statute had been adopted and Berisha’s expulsion had been annulled.
      </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>17 January 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Turkish President, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, made an official visit to Albania, during which he and Rama signed seven bilateral agreements providing for increased co-operation in several areas.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>17 February 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text> The Constitutional Court ruled that President Meta had not acted in violation of the Constitution and acquitted him of the impeachment charges brought against him.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 March 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Basha announced his resignation as leader of the PDSh, which had performed poorly in six mayoral by-elections. He delegated the party leadership for a period of one year to Enkelejd Alibeaj, who announced that he was to appeal a court decision in the same month that recognized the conclusions reached at the assembly convened by Berisha in December 2021. Nevertheless, Berisha stated that he was to seek the leadership of the party, and he was elected as President of the PDSh by his supporters on 22 May. The unresolved divisions in the PDSh persisted into 2023 (and in early March 2023 a court of appeal reportedly overturned the court decision of March 2022).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>4 June 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In the Assembly, 78 members voted to elect Maj.-Gen. (retd) Bajram Begaj, hitherto the Chief of General Staff of the Albanian Armed Forces, as the new President of Albania in a fourth round of voting; he was sworn in on 24 July.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>19 July 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The EU’s High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Josep Borrell Fontelles, announced the launch of EU membership negotiations with Albania and North Macedonia, after the Macedonian legislature voted on 16 July in favour of a proposal that resolved a longstanding disagreement with Bulgaria, which had blocked the start of talks for both Albania and North Macedonia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>25 July 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Rama dismissed Ahmetaj from his ministerial post, replacing him as Deputy Prime Minister with Belinda Balluku, who also remained Minister for Infrastructure and Energy.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>6 September 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>After a cyber-attack in mid-July was linked to Iran, Albania formally suspended relations with that country.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>6 December 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Tirana hosted an EU-Western Balkans summit, the first to be held in the region.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>14 May 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Local elections took place, at which turnout was recorded at 38.5%. The ruling PSSh won 51 of the 61 municipalities.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>10 July 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Taulant Balla was appointed Minister of Internal Affairs, replacing Bledar Çuçi,.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
     </chron-list>
</chronology>