<?xml version="1.0"?>
<bibl-ref bibl-dtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" id="SL62134" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="62133" slsdocid="59799" slsdocty="bibl-section bibl-dtd"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
          
          <bibl-section id="LV.DIR.559" id-root="lv.dir" iso="lv" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="BIBL-REF" usage="casee">
               <heading>Bibliography</heading>
               <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Latvia</alt-heading>
               <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Bibliography</alt-heading>
               <bibl-list>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Angrick, A. and Klein, P. 
          <i>The `Final Solution’ in Riga: Exploitation and Annihilation, 1941-1944</i>
          . New York, Berghahn Books, 2009.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Åslund, A. and Dombrovskis, V. 
          <i>How Latvia Came through the Financial Crisis.</i>
           Washington, DC, Institute for International Economics, 2011.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Auers, D. 
          <i>Comparative Politics and Government of the Baltic States. Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania in the 21st Century</i>
          . Basingstoke, Palgrave, 2015.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry id="LV.DIR.1058178048" type="FULL">
          Eglitis, D. S. 
          <i>Imagining the Nation: History, Modernity and Revolution in Latvia</i>
           (Post-Communist Cultural Studies). University Park, PA, Penn State University Press, 2002.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Ezergailis, A. 
          <i>Nazi/Soviet Disinformation about the Holocaust in Latvia.</i>
           Rīga, Museum of the Occupation of Latvia, 2005.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Gibson, C. 
          <i>Borderlands Between History and Memory: Latgale's Palimpsestuous Past in Contemporary Latvia</i>
          . Tartu, University of Tartu Press, 2016.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry id="LV.DIR.114315072013" type="FULL">
          Hanovs, D., and Teraudkalns, V. (Trans. Bleidere, L.). 
          <i>Ultimate Freedom—No Choice: The Culture of Authoritarianism in Latvia from 1934-1940</i>
          . Leiden, Brill, 2013.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Jubulis, M.&#160;A. 
          <i>Nationalism and Democratic Transition: The Politics of Citizenship and Language in Post-Soviet Latvia</i>
          . Lanham, MD, University Press of America, 2001.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Kalnins, M. 
          <i>Latvia: A Short History</i>
          . London, C. Hurst &amp; Co, 2015.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Kott, M. and Smith, D. 
          <i>Latvia—A Work in Progress?: 100 Years of State- and Nation-Building</i>
          . Stuttgart, Ibidem-Verlag, 2017.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Kudors, A. 
          <i>Russia and Latvia: A Case of Sharp Power</i>
          . Abingdon, Routledge, 2023 (forthcoming).
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Loader, M., Hearne, S. and Kott, M. 
          <i>Defining Latvia: Recent Explorations in History, Culture, and Politics</i>
          . Central European University Press, Budapest, 2022.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Lumens, V. O. 
          <i>Latvia in World War II</i>
          . New York, Fordham University Press, 2006.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Mežmalis, A. M. 
          <i>The Latvian Legion: Information, Facts, Truth.</i>
           Rīga, Autora, 2008.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Prigge, W. D. 
          <i>Bearslayers: The Rise and Fall of the Latvian National Communists</i>
          . New York, Peter Lang, 2015.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Purs, A. and Plakans, A. 
          <i>Historical Dictionary of Latvia</i>
          . 3rd edn, Lanham, MD, Scarecrow Press, 2017.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Rislakki, J. 
          <i>The Case for Latvia: Disinformation Campaigns Against a Small Nation: Fourteen Hard Questions and Straight Answers About a Baltic Country</i>
          . Amsterdam, Rodopi, 2008.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Smith, D. J., Galbreath, D. J. and Swain, G. 
          <i>From Recognition to Restoration: Latvia's History as a Nation-state</i>
          . Amsterdam, Rodopi, 2010.
        </bibl-entry>
               </bibl-list>
          </bibl-section>
     </bibl-ref>
