<?xml version="1.0"?>
<intro-survey id="PL.IS" id-root="pl.is" iso="pl" original-filename="polinsu.rtf" usage="ewyb"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <country-head>Poland</country-head>
     <is-section id="PL.IS.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
          <heading>Introductory Survey</heading>
          <is-section id="PL.IS.2" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Location, Climate, Language, Religion, Flag, Capital</heading>
               <p id="PL.IS.3">The Republic of Poland is situated in Central Europe, bounded to the north by the Baltic Sea and an exclave of the Russian Federation (Kaliningrad Oblast), to the north-east by Lithuania, to the east by Belarus, to the south-east by Ukraine, to the west by Germany, and to the south by the Czech Republic (Czechia) and Slovakia. The climate is temperate in the west but continental in the east. Poland has short summers and cold, snowy winters. Tempera­tures in Warsaw are generally between −6°C (21°F) and 24°C (75°F). The official language is Polish, spoken by almost all of the population, and there is a small German-speaking community. Most of the inhabitants profess Christianity: more than 95% are adherents of the Latin-rite Catholic Church. The national flag (proportions 5 by 8) has two equal horizontal stripes of white and red. The capital is Warsaw (Warszawa).</p>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="PL.IS.4" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Contemporary Political History</heading>
               <is-section id="PL.IS.12646967551" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Historical Context</heading>
                    <p id="PL.IS.5">Poland, partitioned since the 18th century, was declared an independent republic on 11 November 1918, at the end of the First World War. The country was ruled by a military regime from 1926 until 1939, when Poland was invaded by and partitioned between Germany and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR). After Germany declared war on the USSR in June 1941, its forces occupied Poland until they were expelled by Soviet troops in March 1945.</p>
                    <p id="PL.IS.6">At the end of the Second World War a pro-communist Polish Committee of National Liberation’, established in July 1944, was transformed into a Provisional Government. Under the Potsdam Agreement, signed by the major Allied powers in 1945, the former German territories lying east of the rivers Oder and Neisse came under Polish sovereignty, while Poland’s frontier with the USSR was shifted westward.</p>
                    <p id="PL.IS.7">The communist-led `democratic bloc’ claimed victory in national elections held in January 1947. In February a People’s Republic, dominated by the Polska Partia Robotnicza (PPR—Polish Workers’ Party) of Władysław Gomułka, was established. Gomułka’s reluctance to implement the collectivization of agriculture demanded by the Soviet authorities led to his dismissal as First Secretary of the PPR in 1948. In December the PPR merged with the Polska Partia Socjalistyczna (Polish Socialist Party) to form the Polska Zjednoczona Partia Robotnicza (PZPR—Polish United Workers’ Party). Two other parties, the Zjednoczone Stronnictwo Ludowe (ZSL—United Peasants’ Party) and the Stronnictwo Demokratyczne (SD—Democratic Party), were permitted to operate, but were closely controlled by the PZPR, and Poland effectively became a one-party state.</p>
                    <p id="PL.IS.8">In 1956 mass demonstrations, provoked by food shortages, were suppressed by security forces. Gomułka was returned to office, despite Soviet opposition. In December 1970 rising food prices led to strikes and demonstrations in the Baltic port of Gdańsk and elsewhere; many were killed or injured in clashes with security forces, and Gomułka was forced to resign as First Secretary of the PZPR. He was succeeded by Edward Gierek.</p>
                    <p id="PL.IS.9">In August 1980 the Government agreed to demands by shipyard employees for several self-governing trade unions to be established, under the guidance of Solidarność (Solidarity), the organization involved in the Gdańsk strike, which was led by a local worker, Lech Wałęsa. Gierek was replaced as First Secretary of the PZPR by Stanisław Kania. Strikes continued, and in February 1981 Józef Pińkowski resigned as Chairman of the Council of Ministers. He was succeeded by Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski, who also become First Secretary of the PZPR following Kania’s resignation in October.</p>
               </is-section>
               <is-section id="PL.IS.12646968181" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Domestic Political Affairs</heading>
                    <p>On 13 December 1981 martial law was imposed. A governing Military Council of National Salvation, led by Jaruzelski, was established; trade union activity was suspended, and Wałęsa and other Solidarność leaders were detained. Violent clashes ensued, and thousands were arrested. Wałęsa was released in November 1982. In July 1983 martial law was ended; the Military Council was dissolved, and an amnesty was declared for most political prisoners and activists. In October Wałęsa was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. However, in October 1984 the murder of a pro-Solidarność priest provoked renewed unrest. In February 1985 four officers from the Ministry of Internal Affairs were found guilty of the murder.</p>
                    <p>Legislative elections took place in October 1985. New regulations gave voters a choice of two candidates for 410 of the 460 seats in the Sejm (Assembly), the remaining 50 deputies being elected unopposed on a national list. Solidarność appealed for a boycott of the poll. In November Jaruzelski resigned as Chairman of the Council of Ministers to become President of the Council of State (Head of State). He was succeeded by Prof. Zbigniew Messner.</p>
                    <p>In December 1986, in an effort to broaden the regime’s support, Jaruzelski estab­lished a 56-member Consultative Council, comprising mainly non-PZPR members. Nevertheless, in June 1987 there were clashes between police and protesters during a visit by Pope John Paul II (Karol Wojtyła) to his native country. The Messner Government resigned in September, and Mieczysław Rakowski was ap­pointed Chairman of a new Council of Ministers, which included several non-PZPR and reformist politicians. However, the Government’s announcement that the Lenin Shipyard in Gdańsk was to be closed provoked further strike action. By April 1989 agreement had been reached on the restoration of legal status to Solidarność, as well as on the holding of elections to a new, bicameral legislature, the Zgromadzenie Narodowe (National Assembly). Solidarność and other non-communist groups were permitted to contest all the seats in a new upper chamber, the Senat (Senate), which was to have a limited right of veto over the lower chamber, the Assembly. Just 35% of the seats in the Assembly were subject to free elections, with the remainder open only to candidates of the PZPR and associate organizations. A new post of executive President was to be introduced. The necessary amendments to the Constitution were duly approved by the Assembly. In May the Catholic Church was accorded legal status.</p>
                    <p>Elections to the new legislature took place on 4 and 18 June 1989. The electoral wing of Solidarność, the Komitet Obywatelski `Solidarność’ (Solidarity Citizens’ Committee), secured all but one of the 100 seats in the Senate. In the elections to the 460-member Assembly, Solidarność secured all the 161 seats that it was permitted to contest, and the other 299 seats were divided between the PZPR (173 seats), its allied parties—the ZSL (76) and the SD (27)—and members of Catholic organizations (23). The legislature narrowly elected Jaruzelski, unopposed, as executive President. He was replaced as First Secretary of the PZPR by Rakowski. Jaruzelski accepted Wałęsa’s proposal of a coalition of Solidarność, the SD and the ZSL. Tadeusz Mazowiecki of Solidarność was approved as Chairman of the Council of Ministers on 24 August, bringing an end to exclusively communist rule. A Solidarność-dominated administration was formed in September.</p>
                    <p>The new Government’s programme of radical political and economic reforms emphasized the creation of democratic institutions and the introduction of a market economy. In December 1989 the legislature voted to rename the country the Republic of Poland, and pre-communist national symbols were reintroduced. In January 1990 the PZPR was dissolved to allow the establishment of the Socjaldemokracja Rzeczypospolitej Polskiej (SdRP—Social Democracy of the Republic of Poland). Local elections held in May were the first entirely free elections in Poland for more than 50 years. Candidates of the Komitet Obywatelski `Solidarność’ (Solidarity Citizens’ Committee) won over 41% of the seats, while nominally independent candi­dates secured 38%.</p>
                    <p id="PL.IS.18">In September 1990 Jaruzelski agreed to resign, to permit a direct presidential election to take place. At a second round of voting on 9 December, Wałęsa won 74.3% of the votes cast. Wałęsa resigned the chairmanship of Solidarność (he was replaced in February 1991 by Marian Krzaklewski), and in December 1990 was inaugurated as President for a five-year term. Jan Krzysztof Bielecki, a reformist economist, became Prime Minister.</p>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>The Establishment of Pluralistic Politics</heading>
                         <p id="PL.IS.20">Legislative elections took place on 27 October 1991, with the participation of 43.2% of the electorate. Mazowiecki’s Unia Demokratyczna (UD—Democratic Union) won 62 seats, and the SdRP-led Sojusz Lewicy Demokratycznej (SLD—Democratic Left Alliance) 60 seats. The UD was also the largest single party in the Senate, with 21 seats, compared with Solidarność’s 11. In December the Assembly approved a centre-right Council of Ministers, including members of the POC and the Zjednoczenie Chrześcijańsko-Narodowe (ZChN—Christian-National Union), and led by Jan Olszewski of the Porozumienie Obywatelskie Centrum (POC—Centre Civic Alliance).</p>
                         <p id="PL.IS.21">In June 1992 the Assembly approved a motion of no confidence in the Olszewski Government. Hanna Suchocka of the UD became Prime Minister of a coalition administration dominated by the UD and the ZChN. Although a motion of no confidence in the Suchocka administration was approved by the Assembly in May 1993, Wałęsa refused to accept Suchocka’s resignation. Instead, he dissolved the Assembly, scheduling new legislative elections for September.</p>
                         <p id="PL.IS.23">The general election held on 19 September 1993 resulted in victory for parties of the left. The SLD and the Polskie Stronnictwo Ludowe (PSL—Polish People’s Party), both dominated by former communists and their allies, won, respectively, 171 and 132 seats in the Assembly, and 37 and 36 seats in the Senate. The UD took 74 seats in the Assembly and four in the Senate, while Solidarność won 10 seats in the Senate. Wałęsa’s Bezpartyjny Blok Wspierania Reform (Non-Party Bloc for Support of Reform) won 16 seats in the Assembly and two in the Senate. In October Waldemar Pawlak formed a coalition Government, dominated by members of his PSL and the SLD. Relations between the Government and the Pres­ident deteriorated in February 1995, when Wałęsa demanded the Prime Minister’s resignation. In March Józef Oleksy, a member of the SLD and hitherto Marshal (Speaker) of the Assembly, replaced Pawlak as Prime Minister.</p>
                         <p id="PL.IS.26">Aleksander Kwaśniewski, the Chairman of the SdRP (and formerly a leading member of the PZPR), and Wałęsa proceeded to a second round of presidential voting on 19 November 1995, when Kwaśniewski won 51.7% of the votes cast. He took office on 23 December. Following Kwaśniewski’s election, the ministers responsible for foreign affairs, internal affairs and national defence submitted their resignations. The outgoing Minister of Internal Affairs claimed that Oleksy had acted on behalf of Soviet (and subsequently Russian) espionage agents since the 1980s; Oleksy resigned as Prime Minister in January 1996 (an official report, published in October, exonerated him of all charges). Oleksy was subsequently elected Chairman of the SdRP, replacing Kwaśniewski. Włodzimierz Cimoszewicz of the SLD was appointed as Prime Minister in February. In June some 25 centre-right political parties, including Solidarność, the POC and the ZChN, established a new electoral bloc, Akcja Wyborcza Solidarność (AWS—Solidarity Electoral Action).</p>
                         <p>On 2 April 1997 the legislature voted to adopt a new Constitution, which slightly reduced presidential powers. In a national referendum on 25 May, 52.7% of the votes cast were in support of the new text (42.9% of the electorate participated). The new Constitution came into force on 17 October.</p>
                         <p>
            In the general election of 21 September 1997, AWS secured 201 seats in the Assembly and 51 in the Senate, while the SLD won 164 seats in the Assembly and 28 in the Senate. The PSL retained only 27 seats in the Assembly and three in the Senate. Krzaklewski, the leader of AWS, initiated coalition talks with the economically liberal Unia Wolności (UW—Freedom Union) and the conservative Ruch Odbudowy Polski (ROP—Movement for the Reconstruction of Poland), which had won, respectively, 60 and six seats in the Assembly, and eight and five in the Senate. Jerzy Buzek of Solidarność was nominated as Prime Minister in October. AWS and the UW signed a coalition agreement later that month. A new Council of Ministers included Leszek Balcerowicz, leader of the UW, as Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance and Chairman of the Economic Committee. The new Government’s programme prioritized integration with the 
            <xr pageref="Y" ref="NATO.IO">North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)</xr>
             and the 
            <xr pageref="Y" ref="WB02047.IO.TXT">European Union (EU)</xr>
            .
          </p>
                         <p>In June 1998 the Assembly adopted a resolution condemning the communist regime imposed on post-war Poland by the USSR. The approval of the divestment of the Gdańsk shipyard prompted a number of parliamentary deputies to withdraw their support from the ruling coalition. It was declared in December 1999 that Solidarność was to withdraw from political activities and become an `organization of employees’. In May 2000 the UW announced its withdrawal from the governing coalition, and Buzek subsequently formed a minority AWS Government. In the presidential election on 8 October Kwaśniewski was re-elected with 53.9% of the valid votes cast. Krzaklewski resigned as AWS leader in January 2001, and was succeeded by Buzek. Meanwhile, Balcerowicz resigned the leadership of the UW in late 2000, becoming President of the National Bank.</p>
                         <p>In January 2001 Andrzej Olechowski, together with the Marshal of the Assembly, Maciej Plazyński of AWS, and a Vice-Marshal of the Senate, Donald Tusk of the UW, founded a new political movement, the Platforma Obywatelska (PO—Platforma Obywatelska). In May AWS was restructured as Akcja Wyborcza Solidarność Prawicy (AWSP—Solidarity Electoral Action of the Right), in alliance with the ROP.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="PL.IS.15851506861" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Alternation of Power</heading>
                         <p id="PL.IS.43">Legislative elections took place on 23 September 2001. A coalition of the SLD and the Unia Pracy (UP—Union of Labour) won 216 seats in the Assembly and 75 seats in the Senate, falling short of an overall majority. Support for conservative parties was divided between Prawo i Sprawiedliwość (PiS—Law and Justice, founded earlier in the year by former members of AWS), which obtained 44 seats in the Assembly, and the Liga Polskich Rodzin (LPR—League of Polish Families), which secured 38 seats. The recently formed Samoobrona Rzeczpospolitej Polskiej (SRP—Self-Defence Party of the Republic of Poland), a populist party opposed to Polish membership of the EU and led by Andrzej Lepper, obtained 53 seats in the Assembly. On 9 October the SLD and the UP signed a coalition agreement with the PSL, which had obtained 42 seats in the elections to the Assembly. SLD leader Leszek Miller was sworn in as Prime Minister on 19 October. On 1 March 2003 Miller expelled the PSL from the Government, after it supported opposition deputies in a parliamentary vote. A national referendum on EU membership took place in June, at which some 77% of the votes cast by 58.9% of the electorate were in favour of accession.</p>
                         <p id="PL.IS.740">In January 2004 Miller appointed Deputy Chairman of the SLD and former premier Oleksy as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration. In February Miller announced that he was to resign as SLD Chairman, but retain the premiership, in order to focus on Poland’s accession to the EU on 1 May. On 6 March Krzysztof Janik was elected as the party Chairman, but later in the month more than 20 deputies announced their defection from the SLD. Later in March Miller announced that he would resign as Prime Minister on 2 May, and President Kwaśniewski nominated Marek Belka, a former Minister of Finance, to succeed him.</p>
                         <p id="PL.IS.65465">In mid-May 2004 the Assembly rejected Belka’s nomination as premier, but he was renominated by Kwaśniewski, and in June the Assembly approved his appointment by 236 votes to 215. Belka’s Government principally comprised SLD members and independents. In December Oleksy was elected SLD Chairman. However, the Vetting Court subsequently ruled that Oleksy had concealed collaboration with the communist-era military intelligence services and he resigned as Marshal of the Assembly; in January 2005 Włodzimierz Cimoszewicz, hitherto Minister of Foreign Affairs, was elected as his replacement.</p>
                         <p>In legislative elections on 25 September 2005, in which 40.5% of the electorate participated, PiS obtained the largest number of seats in both the Assembly (taking 155 of the 460 seats) and the Senate (with 49 of the 100 seats). The PO won 133 seats in the Assembly and 34 in the Senate, ahead of the SRP, with 56 Assembly and three Senate seats, and the SLD, with 55 Assembly and no Senate representation. Two days later, the leader of PiS, Jarosław Kaczyński, proposed Kazimierz Marcinkiewicz for the premiership. Kaczyński’s twin brother, Lech, the Mayor of Warsaw, contested the presidential election in October as the PiS candidate. On 23 October PO leader Donald Tusk and Lech Kaczyński progressed to a second round of voting, which Kaczyński won, with 54.0% of the votes. He was inaugurated on 23 December. On 31 October Marcinkiewicz was appointed as Prime Minister of a minority Government, comprising members of PiS and independents.</p>
                         <p>In April 2006 PiS signed a coalition agreement with the SRP and the LPR, giving the Government a majority in the Assembly for the first time. Several new ministers were appointed on 5 May. SRP leader Lepper and LPR leader Roman Giertych were awarded deputy prime ministerial positions, with Lepper additionally receiving the agriculture and rural development portfolio, and Giertych also becoming Minister of National Education. In early July Marcinkiewicz tendered his resignation as premier, reportedly owing to disagreements with PiS leader Jarosław Kaczyński; as a result, the Government was constitutionally obliged to resign. Shortly afterwards, President Kaczyński nominated his brother as Marcinkiewicz’s replacement as premier; after the Assembly approved this appointment, Jarosław Kaczyński was sworn into office on 14 July, together with his Council of Ministers.</p>
                         <p>In February 2007 the Minister of National Defence, Radosław Sikorski, resigned; he was succeeded by Aleksander Szczygło. In the same month a former Prosecutor-General, Janusz Kaczmarek, became Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration, following the resignation of Ludwik Dorn. In July Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński removed Lepper from his government post, owing to a corruption investigation relating to the designation of agricultural land. On 13 August President Kaczyński dismissed the remaining SRP and LPR members from the Government, thereby ending the ruling coalition; they were replaced by PiS representatives on an interim basis, and it was announced that early legislative elections would take place.</p>
                         <p>
            At elections to the Assembly on 21 October 2007, 
            
            the PO obtained 209 seats, receiving 41.5% of the votes cast, with PiS receiving 166 seats (32.1% of the votes); an SLD-led coalition secured 53 seats (13.2%), and the PSL 31 seats (8.9%). The rate of voter participation was 53.8%. Neither the LPR nor the SRP obtained legislative representation. (Giertych later resigned from the leadership of the LPR.) On 9 November President Kaczyński nominated Tusk as Prime Minister. Tusk’s PO-PSL Government was approved by the Assembly on 24 November; Sikorski took the foreign affairs portfolio, and Jacek Vincent-Rostowski became Minister of Finance.
          </p>
                         <p>At elections to the European Parliament on 7 June 2009, the PO secured 25 of the 50 contested seats, while PiS won 15 seats, the SLD (in alliance with the UP) seven seats, and the PSL three seats; the rate of participation by the electorate was 24.5%. Three PO ministers, including the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration, Grzegorz Schetyna, were replaced in mid-October.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>The Smolensk Aeroplane Crash</heading>
                         <p>
            On 10 April 2010 President Kaczyński was killed, with 96 others, including the President of the National Bank of Poland and the Chief of Staff of the Defence Forces, in an air crash in the Russian Federation. In accordance with the Constitution, Marshal of the Assembly Bronisław Komorowski was appointed acting President and a presidential election was scheduled. In May some 2,500 people demonstrated outside the presidential palace in Warsaw to demand an independent inquiry into the crash (see 
            <i>Regional Relations</i>
            ).
          </p>
                         <p>Komorowski (for the PO) and Jarosław Kaczyński of the PiS proceeded to a second round of presidential voting on 4 July 2010, when Komorowski was elected President, receiving 53.0% of the votes cast; 54.9% of the electorate participated in the first round, and 52.0% in the second. Komorowski was inaugurated on 6 August.</p>
                         <p>Tusk became the first Prime Minister of Poland to secure two successive terms of office since the end of the communist regime, after the PO won 39.2% of the votes and 207 seats in the Assembly, while securing 63 of 100 seats in the Senate, at legislative elections held on 9 October 2011. Voter participation was around 50%. The PO’s nearest rival was PiS, which took 29.9% of the votes in the Assembly and 157 seats, and 31 seats in the Senate. A new anti-clerical party, Ruch Palikota (Palikot’s Movement), was placed third in the elections to the Assembly, receiving 10.0% of the votes cast and 40 seats. The Government inaugurated on 18 November was largely unaltered. </p>
                         <p>In September 2012 PiS organized a mass anti-Government protest in Warsaw; in the following month Tusk won a parliamentary motion of confidence. In November Pawlak resigned as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Economy, after he lost an election for the chairmanship of the PSL to Janusz Piechociński, who in December succeeded Pawlak in his ministerial post. In November Tusk dismissed Vincent-Rostowski from his post as deputy premier and finance minister as part of a government reorganization, in which Mateusz Szczurek became Minister of Finance.</p>
                         <p>In elections to the European Parliament on 25 May 2014, the PO secured 19 seats, ahead of PiS, with 15; the SLD obtained five seats, and the Kongres Nowej Prawicy (KNP—Congress of the New Right) and the PSL each won four. Voter turnout was 22.7%.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="PL.IS.14278410691" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Return to Power of PiS</heading>
                         <p>
            In June 2014 news periodical 
            <i>Wprost</i>
             published what appeared to be leaked clandestine recordings of conversations between senior government officials, prompting demands for the resignation of the Government and early elections. On 25 June the Government won a motion of confidence in the Assembly. On 9 September, however, Tusk resigned as Prime Minister, following his appointment as President of the European Council. Komorowski nominated Ewa Kopacz, hitherto Marshal of the Assembly, to replace Tusk. Her Government was approved by the Assembly on 22 September. Grzegorz Schetyna was appointed as Minister of Foreign Affairs, replacing Sikorski, who succeeded Kopacz as Marshal. On 8 November Kopacz became leader of the PO, after Tusk’s resignation. In local elections, held on 16 and 30 November, PiS narrowly received the highest number of votes, with 26.9%, compared with shares of 26.4% for the PO and 23.7% for the PSL. PiS complained at alleged irregularities, and the head of the National Electoral Office subsequently tendered his resignation.
          </p>
                         <p>In the first round of a presidential election on 10 May 2015, Andrzej Duda of PiS secured 34.8% of the votes, while Komorowski (endorsed by the PO) secured 33.8%. At the second round on 24 May, Duda, a member of the European Parliament, was elected to the presidency, with 51.6% of the votes cast. In early June the Prime Minister dismissed three ministers, following the publication of files revealing details of the judicial inquiry into the leaked recordings that had emerged in mid-2014. Sikorski, who had been prominent in the scandal, resigned as Marshal of the Assembly. Duda was inaugurated as President on 6 August.</p>
                         <p>Elections to both parliamentary chambers on 25 October 2015 resulted in victory for PiS, which secured an absolute majority, with 235 seats in the Assembly and 37.6% of the votes; the PO’s representation fell to 138 seats, with 24.1%. New parties Kukiz’15 and Nowoczesna (Modern) took, respectively, 42 seats (8.8%) and 28 seats (7.6%), and the PSL obtained only 16 seats (5.1%). PiS also won 61 seats in the Senate, the PO 34 and the PSL one seat. The Deputy Chairman of PiS, Beata Szydło, was appointed to succeed Kopacz as Prime Minister, and her coalition Government, which included representatives of Polska Razem (PR—Poland Together), took office on 16 November.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="PL.IS.14628836031" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Rule of Law Crisis</heading>
                         <p>On 2 December 2015 the legislature approved the Government’s appointment of five judges to the 15-member Constitutional Tribunal (who were immediately sworn in by President Duda), after the appointment of five judges to the Tribunal in October by the previous PO administration had been annulled. A large opposition protest took place in Warsaw on 12 December. Later that month both parliamentary chambers approved legislation increasing the quorum required for the adoption of court decisions from nine to 13 of the 15 judges, and introducing a requirement for a two-thirds’ majority vote rather than a simple majority. The new legislation was criticized by the European Commission, amid concerns that it restricted the powers of the Constitutional Tribunal. Nevertheless, Duda signed the legislation into law on 28 December. Two days later, the Assembly approved legislation removing the management of the public television and radio broadcasters and allowing the PiS Government to appoint media officials directly.</p>
                         <p>Under controversial legislation adopted on 29 January 2016, the Minister of Justice also became the Attorney-General. On 9 March the Constitutional Tribunal ruled that the legislation adopted the previous December breached the Constitution, but the Government refused to regard the judgment as binding. Following a critical report by the Council of Europe’s Venice Commission in March, a revised law on the Constitutional Tribunal was approved by the legislature on 22 July. However, the European Commission issued a further recommendation on the rule of law, urging that the three judges deemed to have been legitimately elected in the previous October be allowed to take office in the Constitutional Tribunal, and that the Government implement the Constitutional Tribunal’s judgment of 9 March. In September Szydło dismissed Minister of Finance Paweł Szałamacha, replacing him with Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Development Mateusz Morawiecki.</p>
                         <p>On 15 July 2017 the Senate approved legislation permitting the Assembly to select the members of the National Council of the Judiciary (responsible for both the nomination of judges and dealing with ethical complaints concerning them), without consulting judicial bodies. Opposition-led demonstrations were staged outside the parliamentary building in Warsaw and in other major cities in protest against the reforms. On 22 July the Senate voted in favour of legislation that would end the terms of all Supreme Court judges, with the exception of those approved by the President. However, President Duda vetoed both laws. On 26 September the President submitted to the Assembly two new draft laws on the Supreme Court and on the National Council of the Judiciary, which were adopted on 8 December. On the same day the Venice Commission published its conclusions that the judicial reforms enabled extensive interference by legislative and executive powers in the judicial process, and represented a severe threat to judicial independence. Nevertheless, on 15 December the two revised laws were approved by the Senate.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="PL.IS.15848234921" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>EU Infringement Proceedings</heading>
                         <p>On 7 December 2017 Prime Minister Beata Szydło resigned. Morawiecki was designated by Duda as Prime Minister. The new Government, with Szydło as a Deputy Prime Minister, secured a vote of confidence on 12 December; Szydło was appointed as a Deputy Prime Minister. In early January 2018 Morawiecki effected an extensive ministerial reorganization. Mariusz Błaszczak, previously Minister of the Interior, became Minister of National Defence, and Jacek Czaputowicz replaced Witold Waszczykowski as Minister of Foreign Affairs.</p>
                         <p>Meanwhile, on 7 December 2017 the European Commission referred the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland to the European Court of Justice (ECJ) over their non-compliance with the EU’s temporary emergency relocation scheme. On 20 December the European Commission recommended to the Council of the EU that it prepare to launch an unprecedented punitive procedure against Poland (under Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union), owing to what it deemed to be the systemic threat posed to the rule of law in the country. The law on the Supreme Court, which officially entered into force on 3 April 2018, reducing the retirement age for its incumbent judges from 70 to 65 years, required 27 of the judges to retire by early July unless Duda agreed to extend their terms of office. On 14 May the European Commission imposed a deadline of the end of June for Poland to demonstrate progress in resolving EU concerns at increasing political influence over the judiciary. On 2 July the Commission officially notified Poland that it had launched infringement proceedings relating to the December 2017 Supreme Court legislation (activating Article 7), while allowing additional time for the authorities to present a response. After Poland’s response to the European Commission was deemed to be unsatisfactory, in late September 2018 the Commission announced it was to refer Poland to the ECJ, in a third phase of the infringement procedure. President Duda appointed 27 new judges to the Supreme Court in early October, despite a demand by the Supreme Administrative Court that the process be suspended. However, later that month, the ECJ issued an interim ruling ordering Poland to suspend immediately the application of the law that had lowered the retirement age of Supreme Court judges, and on 21 November legislation reversing the disputed retirement requirement was adopted. On 17 December Duda signed the revised legislation, thereby providing for the reinstatement of the Supreme Court judges who had been forced to retire.</p>
                         <p>Local elections were conducted on 21 October and 4 November 2018. PiS was the leading party in nine regional assemblies, while a PO-led alliance became the largest grouping in the remaining seven. However, PiS candidates were defeated in large cities, including Warsaw, where Rafał Trzaskowski of the PO secured the mayoralty, with around 57% of the votes cast. In mid-January 2019 Paweł Adamowicz, the Mayor of Gdańsk and a liberal critic of PiS, died after being attacked at a charity event. Anti-violence rallies were subsequently staged across the country.</p>
                         <p>On 3 April 2019 the European Commission announced a new infringement procedure against Poland over a regime (introduced as part of the Supreme Court legislation), under which judges could be subject to disciplinary investigations and, ultimately, penalties in relation to their judicial decisions. Later that month another legislative amendment removed the right of unsuccessful candidates for the Supreme Court to appeal, and cancelled appeals already initiated.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>The 2019 Legislative Elections</heading>
                         <p>In elections to the European Parliament on 26 May 2019, PiS secured 26 of the 51 seats contested, and 45.4% of the votes cast. The five-member Koalicja Europejska (European Coalition), a pro-EU grouping that included the PO, secured 22 seats and 38.5% of the votes. Turnout was recorded at 45.7%. On 4 June a cabinet reorganization was effected. Notably, Minister of the Interior and Administration Joachim Brudziński was replaced by Elżbieta Witek. On 9 August Witek was appointed Marshal of the Assembly, replacing Marek Kuchciński, who resigned amid criticism of his family’s use of government aircraft; Witek was succeeded in her ministerial role by Mariusz Kamiński.</p>
                         <p>Legislative elections took place on 13 October 2019. The PiS-led alliance, known as the Zjednoczona Prawica (ZP—United Right), won 235 seats in the Assembly, retaining its majority and securing 43.6% of the votes cast. The Koalicja Obywatelska (KO—Civic Coalition), led by the PO, and including Nowoczesna and the Inicjatywa Polska (Polish Initiative), won 134 seats and 27.4% of the votes, while Lewica (the Left), a grouping led by the SLD, obtained 49 seats (with 12.6%), and the PSL-led Koalicja Polska (Polish Coalition) 30 seats (8.6%). In the elections to the Senate, PiS won 48 of the 100 seats contested, losing its outright majority. The KO won 43 seats, while the Koalicja Polska won three and Lewica won two. Turnout was recorded at 61.7%. On 14 November Morawiecki was reappointed as Prime Minister by President Duda, and on the following day a new, largely unchanged Government was sworn in; Tadeusz Kościński was appointed as Minister of Finance.</p>
                         <p>
                              <!--https://eucrim.eu/news/threat-of-rule-of-law-in-poland-recent-developments/-->
            Meanwhile, on 10 October 2019 the European Commission referred Poland to the ECJ in relation to the new disciplinary procedure for judges. On 5 December the Supreme Court’s labour chamber ruled that the disciplinary chamber did not fulfil the requirements of an independent and impartial tribunal. Amid nationwide protests, further legislation, which was approved by the Assembly on 20 December, prohibited political activities for judges and empowered the disciplinary chamber of the Supreme Court to impose sanctions against them. The legislation, after being rejected by the Senate, nevertheless again received the approval of the Assembly on 23 January 2020 and entered into effect on 14 February.
          </p>
                         <p>In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, containment measures were introduced in March 2020, and an official epidemic was declared by Prime Minister Morawiecki on 20 March. On 16 April the Government announced a staged plan to lift the restrictions.</p>
                         <p>On 2 April 2020 the ECJ ruled that Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic had violated the law by refusing to fulfil their obligations under the EU’s migrant relocation scheme. On 8 April the ECJ ordered that the Polish Government suspend the powers of the disciplinary chamber of the Supreme Court (which, nevertheless, continued to operate). By that time 14 judges of the 15-member Constitutional Tribunal had been nominated by the ruling coalition. On 29 April the European Commission launched a new infringement procedure against Poland regarding the disciplinary law.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="PL.IS.16162510281" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Re-election of President Duda</heading>
                         <p>Following conflict with smaller coalition party Porozumienie (Agreement—which had been reconstituted from PR), prompting the resignation of its leader, Jarosław Gowin, as a Deputy Prime Minister, in early May 2020 PiS agreed to postpone the presidential election, owing to the COVID-19 crisis. The election was rescheduled for 28 June, when Duda won 43.5% of the votes cast in the first round, followed by Trzaskowski, the Mayor of Warsaw, with 30.5%; nine other candidates also contested the poll. In the second round on 12 July, Duda secured 51.0% of the votes, narrowly defeating Trzaskowski. Voter turnout was 64.5% in the first round and 68.2% in the second. Duda was inaugurated on 6 August. Later that month Morawiecki appointed Zbigniew Rau as Minister of Foreign Affairs and Adam Niedzielski, previously the head of the National Health Fund, as Minister of Health. As part of an extensive government reorganization in late September, Kaczyński joined the Government as a Deputy Prime Minister, also becoming head of a new State Security Committee, which was to oversee the justice, national defence and interior ministries. Gowin was reinstated as a Deputy Prime Minister and was appointed as Minister of Development, Labour and Technology.</p>
                         <p>On 22 October 2020 the Constitutional Tribunal ruled that abortion on the grounds of severe foetal impairment was unconstitutional. (Draft legislation restricting abortion had been rejected by the Assembly in late 2016, amid mass demonstrations.) Public protests took place in Warsaw and in major cities nationwide. Despite the protests, on 27 January 2021 the Constitutional Tribunal ruling on abortion was promulgated, and a near-total ban on abortion entered into force on the following day, precipitating further large-scale protests.</p>
                         <p>In mid-July 2021 the Constitutional Tribunal ruled that ECJ injunctions demanding that Poland suspend the controversial disciplinary chamber were incompatible with the Constitution. The Constitutional Tribunal further ruled in October that two articles of the Treaty on European Union were incompatible with Poland’s Constitution, and that the Constitution should take precedence over EU law in these cases. On 22 December the European Commission launched a new infringement procedure against Poland owing to concerns relating to the Constitutional Tribunal. In the same month the ECJ imposed a record daily fine of €1m. against Poland for failure to comply with its orders.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Revision of Judicial Reforms</heading>
                         <p>
            In early February 2022 Kościński resigned as Minister of Finance, following criticism of the Government’s implementation of a controversial package of tax reforms, which took effect at the beginning of the year. Following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine (see 
            <i>Regional Relations</i>
            ), in mid-March the Assembly approved legislation on the provision of assistance to Ukrainian refugees arriving in Poland (who rapidly numbered some 1.5m.), granting them the legal right to remain in the country for a period of up to three years and to obtain social benefits. All remaining restrictions imposed in response to the COVID-19 pandemic in Poland were lifted on 28 March.
          </p>
                         <p>
            Magdalena Rzeczkowska, an independent and hitherto head of the National Revenue Administration, was appointed to succeed Kościński as Minister of Finance in April 2022. On 20 June Kaczyński announced his resignation as Deputy Prime Minister in order to focus on his role as leader of PiS prior to the next elections; he was succeeded by Minister of National Defence Błaszczak (who retained his previous post). A final version of legislation that had been proposed by President Duda in February, providing for the closure of the judicial disciplinary chamber of the Supreme Court and its replacement by a new Chamber of Professional Responsibility tasked with holding judges to account, was approved by the Assembly on 9 June; the Assembly rejected a number of amendments proposed by the opposition, which claimed that the new chamber would also be under government control. (The legislation was signed into law by Duda on 13 June.) The disciplinary chamber was dissolved in mid-July and the successor Chamber of Professional Responsibility, comprising 11 members selected by Duda from Supreme Court judges, subsequently established. On 13 January 2023 the Assembly approved legislation that would further reverse some of the previous contentious judicial reforms, including by transferring judicial disciplinary matters from the Supreme Court to the Supreme Administrative Court. The European Commission in April rejected a government application for the daily €1m. fine levied against Poland to be suspended; however, shortly afterwards the ECJ reduced the fine to €500,000. Meanwhile, Henryk Kowalczyk announced his resignation as Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development in early April (retaining his concurrent post as Deputy Prime Minister), following protests by farmers’ groups (see 
            <i>Regional Relations</i>
            ), which accused him of mismanagement.
          </p>
                         <p>
                              <!--https://eucrim.eu/news/rule-of-law-developments-in-poland-may-october-2023/-->
            On 26 May 2023 the Assembly adopted a law creating a `State Commission to Investigate Russian Influence on Internal Security in the Republic of Poland’, which would investigate whether senior officials had acted to the detriment of public interest between 2007 and 2022 and, prior to parliamentary elections, would be empowered to ban any political figure from holding most public office for 10 years. The new law, which prompted accusations from opposition parties that it targeted the actions of PO administrations between 2007 and 2015, and specifically PO leader Tusk, also caused the EU and the USA to express strong concerns. Nevertheless, it was signed by President Duda on 29 May and entered into force on 31 May. Shortly afterwards, Duda announced that he had submitted several proposed revisions to the legislation for urgent parliamentary consideration. The PO organized mass protests against the law in major cities on 4 June; the rallies in Warsaw numbered up to 500,000 people (according to opposition estimates) and were attended by leading activists, including former President Wałęsa. On 8 June the European Commission opened an infringement procedure against Poland, considering that the legislation was in violation of EU law. The proposed amendments to the legislation, which notably removed the authority of the commission to ban figures from public office and allowed the right to appeal against its decisions, were adopted in early August. Meanwhile, on 21 June Kaczyński returned to the Government as its only Deputy Prime Minister, as the four incumbent deputy premiers resigned at the same time (while retaining their ministerial portfolios). On 17 August the Assembly approved a resolution to schedule a national referendum concerning economic and migration issues concurrently with the elections; four questions were to be posed to voters, on whether they supported, respectively, the sale of state assets to foreign entities, an increase in the retirement age, the removal of the barrier on Poland’s border with Belarus (see 
            <i>Regional Relations</i>
            ), and the admission of large numbers of immigrants under the EU’s relocation mechanism. Opposition parties objected to the phrasing of the referendum questions, which was considered to be biased and designed to reflect PiS attacks on the opposition, and urged a boycott of the vote.
          </p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="PL.IS.17139977251" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Recent Developments: Return of the PO to Government</heading>
                         <p>The KO alliance led by Tusk, which pledged during its campaign to improve Poland’s relations with the EU, organized further mass rallies in Warsaw and other cities on 1 October 2023. At the elections on 15 October the PiS-led ZP coalition remained the first-placed party in the Assembly, with 35.4% of the votes cast and 194 seats, but lost its majority; the KO secured 30.7% and 157 seats, a newly formed alliance which included the Koalicja Polska and Polska 2050 (Poland 2050), Trzecia Droga (Third Way), 14.4% and 65 seats, the Nowa Lewica (NL—New Left) 8.6% and 26 seats, and the far-right Konfederacja (Confederation) alliance 7.2% and 18 seats. The voter turnout of 74.4% was the highest recorded rate in elections since the end of communism. The KO obtained 41 seats in the Senate, while ZP took 34, Trzecia Droga 11, the NL nine and independents the remainder. At the concurrent referendum, more than 96% of those participating voted `no’ to all four questions, but the turnout of only 40.9% (below the required minimum of 50%) invalidated the results.</p>
                         <p>In early November 2023 President Duda designated outgoing premier Morawiecki as Prime Minister, although shortly afterwards several leaders of the elected parties signed a coalition agreement selecting Tusk as their prime ministerial candidate. On 13 November the leader of Polska 2050, Szymon Hołownia, was elected Marshal of the Assembly and Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska of the PO became Marshal of the Senate. Duda officially appointed Morawiecki as the head of a proposed new government on 27 November. However, as widely expected, on 11 December his administration lost a vote of confidence in the Assembly by 190 votes to 266, and shortly afterwards the nomination of Tusk as Prime Minister was approved with 248 votes in favour and 201 against. Tusk’s new Government, comprising representatives of the PO, the PSL, the NL, Polska 2050, the Inicjatywa Polska and Nowoczesna, as well as independents, secured a parliamentary vote of confidence on 12 December and was inaugurated on the following day. The leader of the PSL, Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, received the post of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of National Defence, while Krzysztof Gawkowski of NL became Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Digital Affairs. Several former PO ministers returned to government, including Sikorski, who again received the foreign affairs portfolio.</p>
                         <p>The new Government rapidly created three parliamentary commissions of inquiry to investigate alleged abuses by the previous PiS administration, including the use of Pegasus surveillance software to monitor opposition figures (reported by the media in 2021). On 20 December 2023 the Assembly adopted a resolution declaring the composition of the National Council of the Judiciary to be unconstitutional, which was regarded as preparatory to reversing the measures of the PiS Government. Following another parliamentary resolution on the need to restore the impartiality of state media, the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, dismissed the directors of the state television, radio and news agency, after which PiS organized protests at the media outlets. Meanwhile, former PiS interior minister Kamiński and his former deputy, Maciej Wąsik, who were members of the Assembly, were sentenced to two years’ imprisonment for abuse of power committed in 2007 when they headed the country’s Central Anti-Corruption Bureau (upholding a previous conviction in 2015 which had been reversed by a presidential pardon). On 9 January 2024 Kamiński and Wąsik were accordingly detained at the presidential palace, prompting protests by their supporters, including PiS leader Kaczyński. Two days later PiS organized a large rally in central Warsaw in protest at the changes to state media and the detention of Kamiński and Wąsik. On 23 January Duda announced that he had again pardoned the two men. At the end of January Duda referred the national budget for 2024 to the Constitutional Tribunal for review; his presidential powers of veto were expected to impede the Government’s reform efforts.</p>
                         <p>
            Amid renewed protests by farmers over Ukrainian agricultural imports (see 
            <i>Regional Relations</i>
            ), on 27 February 2024 a mass rally was staged in Warsaw to demand the closure of the border with Ukraine and the abolition of EU environmental policies. Despite negotiating efforts by the PO Government, the farmers’ protest campaign, supported by the PiS-affiliated Solidarność union, continued during March, with tractor blockades of major roads around cities.
          </p>
                         <p>
                              <!--https://www.rudpedersen.com/news/Political-update-April-7-results-from-local-elections-in-Poland-->
            Local elections were conducted on 7 and 21 April 2024. Although PiS secured 239 seats overall in the regional assemblies, ahead of the KO (with 210), and remained the largest single party according to vote share, the KO secured majorities in nine of the 16 assemblies, while PiS retained seven. In the mayoral polls, KO or KO-supported candidates were successful in principal cities, including Warsaw (where Trzaskowski of the PO was decisively re-elected), Gdańsk and Kraków. Meanwhile, on 12 April the Assembly voted in favour of proceeding with draft legislation to ease the ban on abortion. A government reorganization took place in May, after four ministers, including Minister of the Interior and Administration Marcin Kierwiński, were selected to contest the European Parliament elections.
          </p>
                    </is-section>
               </is-section>
               <is-section id="PL.IS.12646968841" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Foreign Affairs</heading>
                    <is-section id="PL.IS.12996015191" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Regional Relations</heading>
                         <p id="PL.IS.45">After 1991, close relations were retained with the Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia through the structures of the Visegrad Group and the Central European Free Trade Agreement. In 1991-92 Poland established diplomatic relations with the former republics of the USSR, developing particularly strong links with Ukraine. All former Soviet combat troops were withdrawn from Poland by November 1992, and the last remaining Russian military presence was withdrawn in September 1994. Although relations with the Russian Federation deteriorated after Poland acceded to NATO in 1999, in July 2000 President Kwaśniewski became the first Polish head of state to pay an official visit to Moscow, the Russian capital, since the collapse of communist rule, and Russian President Vladimir Putin made an official visit to Poland in January 2002.</p>
                         <p>In April 2010 President Lech Kaczyński and 96 others died in an air crash near Smolensk, Russia, while travelling to attend a 70th anniversary ceremony of a massacre of Poles by Soviet troops at Katyń. In November Russia’s Federal Assembly issued a historic declaration acknowledging that former Soviet leader Iosif Dzhugashvili (Stalin) had given the order for the massacre in 1940. A report by Russian aviation investigators, released in January 2011, concluded that errors by the Polish flight crew had caused the Smolensk air crash. An investigation conducted by Polish aviation experts under Tusk’s Government also concluded in November that the crash was largely a result of pilot error.</p>
                         <p>
            The Polish Government was strongly critical of Russia’s annexation of Ukraine’s Crimean peninsula in March 2014 and the subsequent military conflict in the Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts (regions) of eastern Ukraine. In February 2021 the Russian Government ordered the expulsion of a Polish diplomat who had participated in protests against the detention of opposition activist Aleksei Navalnyi; Poland expelled a Russian diplomat shortly afterwards. The Polish Government in mid-April declared three Russian diplomats 
            <i>personae non gratae</i>
             for conducting activities harmful to Poland. Russia’s military invasion of Ukraine on 24 February 2022 was denounced by the Polish Government, and Prime Minister Morawiecki urged a united international effort in military assistance for Ukraine. In April Russian state gas enterprise Gazprom announced that it would end gas supplies to Poland if the country failed to accept new payment terms, introduced in response to EU sanctions, demanding payment in Russian roubles. After the Polish Oil and Gas Company refused to comply with these terms, Gazprom cut supplies to Poland on 27 April. Meanwhile, in early April Russia declared 45 Polish diplomatic personnel 
            <i>personae non grata</i>
             in retaliation for the expulsion by Poland of 45 Russian diplomats (suspected of espionage) in the previous month. Following the reopening of the investigation into the Smolensk air crash in early 2016, a special committee established by the PiS-led Government released a delayed final report in April 2022 which found that the crash was the result of an explosion, thereby repeating allegations by PiS leader Jarosław Kaczyński that the aircraft had been destroyed as part of a Russian assassination plan.
          </p>
                         <p>President Duda visited the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, in a demonstration of support on 22 May 2022, when he met Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and addressed the Ukrainian parliament. In late September the Polish Government (following those of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania) banned all Russian tourists from entering its territory on grounds of security. Duda again met Zelensky in Kyiv shortly before the 25th anniversary of Ukraine’s independence on 24 August. During Russian bombardments of Ukrainian infrastructure, on 15 November a missile struck the Polish village of Przewodów, near the border with Ukraine, killing two people. Both NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg and the Polish Government announced shortly afterwards that the incident (the first in which a missile had landed and exploded within NATO territory during the Russian invasion) was likely to have been caused by an air defence missile fired by Ukrainian forces, rather than by a Russian attack.</p>
                         <p>
            In mid-March 2023 Poland (with Slovakia following shortly afterwards) became the first NATO country to pledge to supply Ukraine with fighter jets, and the first Polish delivery was announced in early April. Amid protests over the impact of cheap Ukrainian grain imports on local prices (see 
            <i>Domestic Political Affairs</i>
            ), Zelensky made a state visit to Warsaw on 5 April, when he and Prime Minister Morawiecki signed a letter of intent to co-operate on the supply of defence equipment to Ukraine. Later that month the Polish Government announced the construction of a 200-km barrier along the border with Russia’s Kaliningrad exclave in order to monitor and counteract any illegal activity.
          </p>
                         <p>However, during March 2023 Polish farmers’ groups staged increasing protests over imports of large quantities of tariff-free Ukrainian grain and other produce with an impact on local prices (amid similar campaigns in other countries neighbouring Ukraine). In mid-April Poland and Hungary (followed by Slovakia and Bulgaria) imposed bans on the import of Ukrainian agricultural products to protect local farmers. The European Commission criticized the decision as unacceptable. Following negotiations, on 18 April an agreement was reached under which the transit of Ukrainian food products through Poland to third-country markets would resume, with the introduction of monitoring measures. After interim EU restrictions expired, in September Poland reintroduced a national ban on Ukrainian grain imports, causing acrimony between Morawiecki and Zelensky. Later that month Morawiecki announced that Poland would end the supply of weapons to Ukraine. In early November Polish truck drivers began a blockade of four principal border crossings with Ukraine to protest at unfair competition from Ukrainian transport companies (which were exempted from EU access restrictions); following negotiations with the Government, the truck drivers suspended the blockade in mid-January 2024. In his first official visit abroad since taking office, Prime Minister Tusk met Zelensky in Kyiv on 22 January, pledging full support for Ukraine. However, in February renewed protests by Polish farmers (as the EU proposed to extend tariff exemptions for Ukrainian agricultural imports, with provisions for `safeguards’) resulted in a further blockade on all major border crossing points with Ukraine. (During March the farmers’ protest campaign was expanded to blockades at borders with other neighbouring countries, including Germany.) Following appeals by Tusk and orders by local authorities, all the protest blockades at border crossings with Ukraine had been lifted by the end of April.</p>
                         <p>Meanwhile, as Russia continued mass bombardments of Ukraine, the Polish authorities reported the breach of the country’s airspace by a Russian missile in December 2023 and again in March 2024. In April a Polish citizen was arrested on suspicion of planning to pass airport security information to the Russian intelligence services as part of a conspiracy to assassinate President Zelensky.</p>
                         <p>Poland’s relations with Belarus, frequently strained, deteriorated after the Polish Government openly supported mass opposition protests in Belarus against the disputed re-election of President Alyaksandr Lukashenka in August 2020. In early October Belarus demanded that the number of diplomats from Poland and Lithuania be reduced by more than one-half. In January 2022 the Polish consul in the south-western Belarusian city of Brest was expelled. Meanwhile, in August 2021 illegal attempts by large groups of migrants to cross the Polish border from Belarus were reported. The Belarusian authorities were accused of encouraging the migrants, who were predominantly from Iraq and the Syrian Arab Republic, to enter EU territory illegally, in what was described by the Governments of Poland, Latvia and Lithuania as an act of `hybrid warfare’. Polish troops were dispatched to the border, and on 2 September Duda declared a state of emergency in two border regions. In October the Minister of National Defence announced the construction of a barrier along the border with Belarus. Some migrants were forced to return to Belarus by Polish border guards, who also reportedly used water cannon and tear gas to deter illegal crossings. Construction of the border wall began in January 2022 (by which time the majority of migrants had left the area) and it was completed in June.</p>
                         <p id="PL.IS.48">In November 1990 Poland and Germany signed a border treaty confirming their post-1945 borders. Poland welcomed the establishment, announced in February 1999, of a compensation fund for over 2m. Poles who were employed as forced labour in German companies during the Second World War. Following a report by a parliamentary commission on losses suffered by Poland during the Second World War, in September 2022 the PiS Government formally presented a demand to Germany for reparations of €1,280,000m. (which was rejected by Germany).</p>
                         <p id="PL.IS.49">Poland became a full member of the EU on 1 May 2004, and implemented the EU’s Schengen Agreement on freedom of travel in December 2007. In February 2013 the Assembly approved ratification of the EU’s Treaty on Stability, Co-ordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union (the `fiscal compact’). In late November 2020 both Poland and Hungary vetoed the adoption of the EU’s new seven-year budget, incorporating post-pandemic recovery funds, owing to their objections to a new mechanism linking the disbursement of EU funds to observance of rule of law criteria by member states. A compromise agreement was reached on 10 December, providing for Poland and Hungary to withdraw their vetoes, with implementation of the mechanism to be deferred until the ECJ ruled on its legality. Poland and Hungary submitted a legal challenge against the new mechanism at the ECJ, which was dismissed by the Court in mid-February 2022.</p>
                         <p>Poland’s post-pandemic National Recovery and Resilience Plan was approved by the European Commission on 1 June 2022, although the release of payments was contingent on the implementation of reform commitments on the independence of the judiciary. Funds under the EU’s Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF) were subsequently blocked as the rule of law conflict continued, while in October the European Commission announced that cohesion fund payments to Poland under the new Multiannual Financial Framework for 2021-27 (totalling €76,500m.) would also be withheld due to the country’s failure to comply with EU requirements on fundamental rights. Poland and Hungary both delayed approval of an EU €18,000m. aid package for Ukraine, together with the adoption of a minimum global corporate tax rate, with the aim of securing a reduction in penalties; Poland finally ended its opposition, shortly after Hungary, at an EU summit in mid-December 2022.</p>
                         <p>
            Following the establishment of a PO-led Government in December 2023 (see 
            <i>Domestic Political Affairs</i>
            ), Minister of Justice Adam Bodnar in February 2024 presented to the EU an action plan designed to restore the independence of the judiciary in Poland. Shortly afterwards, President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen and the Prime Minister of Belgium (which held the EU Presidency) visited Warsaw, when it was confirmed that the EU had decided to unblock the RRF and cohesion funds allocated to Poland. The first RRF payment of €6.300m. was accordingly released in mid-April.
          </p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="PL.IS.16518272361" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Other External Relations</heading>
                         <p id="PL.IS.50">The Polish Government strongly supported the US-led military campaign against the regime of Iraqi President Saddam Hussain in 2003, and contributed some 2,500 troops to the multinational force in Iraq. The final Polish contingent left Iraq in October 2008.</p>
                         <p>At a NATO summit meeting, which took place in Bucharest, Romania, in April 2008, member states endorsed US plans to position missile defence bases (as part of its proposed National Missile Defence programme) in Poland and the Czech Republic. In August a treaty was signed in Warsaw, providing for the installation of US anti-missile interceptors and guaranteeing the permanent stationing of US missiles in Poland, prompting immediate protests by Russia. However, in September 2009 President Obama informed Tusk that the US Administration had cancelled plans for the permanent missile defence installations in Poland and the Czech Republic. Agreement was subsequently reached on the deployment of a much smaller-scale installation of US anti-missile interceptors in Poland, and a protocol amending the 2008 agreement was signed in Kraków in July 2010. On 6 July 2017 US President Donald Trump visited Warsaw, making a speech in which he described Poland as a `symbol of freedom’. In November 2019 Poland was added to the US Visa Waiver Program.</p>
                         <p>
            In response to the annexation of Ukraine’s Crimean peninsula by Russia (see 
            <i>Regional Relations</i>
            ), in April 2014 the USA stationed 150 troops in Poland to begin a series of training exercises. In September the defence ministers of Poland, Lithuania and Ukraine signed an agreement in Warsaw that provided for the creation of a joint military force, the Lithuanian-Polish-Ukrainian Brigade, which would participate in peacekeeping operations. In February 2015, amid continuing conflict in eastern Ukraine, NATO announced plans to establish an expanded rapid reaction force to counter possible Russian aggression. At a NATO summit meeting, held in Warsaw on 8 July 2016, the deployment, on a rotating basis, of four multinational battalions to Poland and the three Baltic states (Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania), respectively, was confirmed. Meanwhile, in January a ceremony to mark the creation of the 4,500-member Lithuanian-Polish-Ukrainian Brigade took place in the eastern town of Lublin. The NATO battalion was deployed in the north-eastern town of Orzysz from April.
          </p>
                         <p>
            In early February 2022, as Russia amassed troops on the border with Ukraine, the USA agreed to increase the number of US military personnel deployed in Poland. After Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine on 24 February, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken visited Poland on 5 March, reaffirming NATO’s commitment to defending the country’s eastern border and the strong ties between the USA and Poland. Later that month US President Joe Biden visited Poland, meeting his Polish counterpart, in a demonstration of support for the country. 
            <!--https://www.nato.int/nato_static_fl2014/assets/pdf/2022/11/pdf/221128-factsheet-efp_en.pdf-->
            At November the US-led NATO battlegroup in Orzysz totalled 1,033 troops (also comprising personnel from Croatia, Romania and the UK). Following lengthy delays, in March 2023 it was announced that construction at the site for a US missile defence system near the village of Redzikowo, in northern Poland, had been completed; the facility became operational in December. President Duda visited the USA in April 2024, after which he stated in a media interview that Poland was willing to host NATO nuclear weapons. Shortly afterwards, NATO Secretary-General Stoltenberg, together with the British Prime Minister, visited Warsaw, when increased military support for Ukraine was announced.
          </p>
                    </is-section>
               </is-section>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="PL.IS.51" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Constitution and Government</heading>
               <p id="PL.IS.52">Under the Constitution, which came into force in October 1997, legislative power is vested in the bicameral Zgromadzenie Narodowe (National Assembly), which is elected for a four-year term and com­prises the 100-member Senat (Senate, upper chamber) and the 460-member Sejm (Assembly, lower chamber). The Senate reviews the laws adopted by the Assembly and may propose their rejection. Senators and deputies are elected by universal, direct suffrage. In the Assembly, deputies are elected under a system of proportional representation. Executive power is vested in the President of the Republic, who is directly elected (a second ballot being held if necessary) for a five-year term and may be re-elected only once, and in the appointed Council of Ministers, led by the Prime Minister. The Council of Ministers is responsible to the Assembly for its activities. Poland is divided into 16 voivodships (provinces) and 379 powiats (districts).</p>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="PL.IS.12646969891" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Regional and International Co-operation</heading>
               <p id="PL.IS.666666">
        Poland is a member of the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="EBRD.IO">European Bank for Reconstruction and Development</xr>
         and the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="CE.IO">Council of Europe</xr>
        . In May 2004 Poland became a full member of the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="WB02047.IO.TXT">European Union</xr>
        .
      </p>
               <p>
        Poland became a member of the United Nations in 1955. As a contracting party to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, Poland joined the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="WTO.IO">World Trade Organization</xr>
         in 1995. Poland is also a member of the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="OECD.IO">Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development</xr>
         and the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="NATO.IO">North Atlantic Treaty Organization</xr>
        . Poland is a founder member of the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="AIIB.IO">Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank</xr>
        .
      </p>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="PL.IS.56" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Economic Affairs</heading>
               <!--Updates have been done from official source, World bank, BP and ILO. Could not update the sectoral share of mining and quarrying, and manufacturing in GDP as well as in employment because the statistical yearbook for 2010 and 2011 do not have their full contents. AkS (7/2/2012)-->
               <!--GDP is sourced form World Bank database; Inflation is from the ILO database; energy is updated from the BP spreadsheet; GDP contributions, employment, trade are from official website. SK (25 March 2013)-->
               <!--Trade figures, sectoral contribution to GDP ad employment have been taken from official sources. CPI is from ILO. GDP growth rates are from World Bank data. MA (11 March 2014)-->
               <!--GDP employment shares and trade figures are from stats survey CPI figures are from ILO All growth rates have been calculated from UN National accounts data MA 17 March 2015 Complete data for 2017 GDP by Economic Activity was not available hence couldnt update sectoral contributions SHG 14 MAR 2018-->
               <p id="PL.IS.57">In 2022, according to estimates by the World Bank, Poland’s gross national income (GNI), measured at average 2020-22 prices, was US&#160;$689,129m., equivalent to $18,350 per head (or $41,310 per head on an international purchasing-power parity basis). During 2013-22, according to World Bank estimates, the population decreased at an average annual rate of 0.1%, while gross domestic product (GDP) per head decreased, in real terms, at an average annual rate of 4.2%. Overall GDP increased, in real terms, at an average annual rate of 4.0% in 2013-22; GDP increased by 4.9% in 2022.</p>
               <!--Data for sectors sourced from Statistical Yearbook 2009. AS and JS-->
               <p id="PL.IS.58">Agriculture contributed 3.2% of GDP in 2022, and engaged 7.1% of the employed labour force in the fourth quarter of 2023. The principal crops are sugar beet, wheat, potatoes, triticale (wheat-rye hybrid), maize and rapeseed. Livestock production is important to the domestic food supply. According to World Bank estimates, during 2013-22 the GDP of the agricultural sector decreased, in real terms, at an average annual rate of 1.9%; real agricultural GDP decreased by 11.1% in 2021 and by 1.7% in 2022.</p>
               <p id="PL.IS.59">Industry (including mining, manufacturing, power and construction) contributed 31.5% of GDP in 2022, and engaged 29.9% of the employed labour force in the fourth quarter of 2023. According to World Bank estimates, during 2013-22 industrial GDP increased, in real terms, by an average of 3.5% per year; real industrial GDP increased by 3.4% in 2021 and by 7.0% in 2022.</p>
               <p id="PL.IS.60">Mining and quarrying contributed 2.0% of GDP in 2022, and engaged 1.0% of the employed labour force in the fourth quarter of 2023. Poland is a significant producer of copper, silver and sulphur, and there are also considerable reserves of natural gas and coal. At the end of 2020 Poland’s proven coal reserves stood at 28,395m. metric tons. According to United Nations (UN) estimates, the GDP of mining sector (along with utilities) decreased, in real terms, by an average of 1.1% per year in 2013-22; GDP increased by 6.7% in 2021, but decreased by 15.4% in 2022.</p>
               <!--Coal reserves figure from BP statistical review SZM 17 March 2020-->
               <p id="PL.IS.61">The manufacturing sector contributed 19.6% of GDP in 2022, and engaged 19.4% of the employed labour force in the fourth quarter of 2023. According to World Bank estimates, in 2013-22 manufacturing GDP increased, in real terms, at an average annual rate of 4.5%; manufacturing GDP increased by 1.9% in 2021 and by 7.2% in 2022.</p>
               <p>The construction sector contributed 6.5% of GDP in 2022, and engaged 7.5% of the employed labour force in the fourth quarter of 2023. According to UN estimates, the GDP of the construction sector increased, in real terms, by an average of 2.9% per year in 2013-22; construction GDP increased by 5.1% in 2022.</p>
               <p id="PL.IS.62">Energy is derived principally from coal, which supplied 80.9% of the country’s total energy requirements in 2015. Mineral fuels and lubricants accounted for 9.0% of the value of merchandise imports in 2023.</p>
               <p id="PL.IS.63">The services sector contributed 65.3% of GDP in 2022, and engaged 63.0% of the employed labour force in the fourth quarter of 2023. According to World Bank estimates, the GDP of the services sector increased, in real terms, by an average of 4.4% per year in 2013-22; services GDP increased by 8.9% in 2021 and by 4.0% in 2022.</p>
               <p id="PL.IS.64">In 2022 Poland recorded a visible merchandise trade deficit of US&#160;$25,561m., and there was a deficit of $16,697m. on the current account of the balance of payments. In 2023 the principal source of imports was Germany (accounting for 19.8% of the total); other major suppliers were the People’s Republic of China and Italy. Germany was also the principal market for exports (27.9% of the total); other significant purchasers were the Czech Republic, France and the United Kingdom. The principal imports in 2023 were machinery and transport equipment, basic manufactures, chemicals and related products, miscellaneous manufactured articles, mineral fuels and lubricants, and food and live animals. The principal exports in that year were machinery and transport equipment, basic manufactures, miscellaneous manufactured articles, food and live animals, and chemicals and related products.</p>
               <p id="PL.IS.65">Poland’s budgetary deficit was estimated at 92,000m. złoty in 2023. Its general government gross debt was an estimated 1,512,227m. złoty in 2022, equivalent to 49.1% of GDP. Poland’s external debt totalled US&#160;$218,022m. at the end of 2008, of which $43,426m. was public and publicly guaranteed debt. In 2008 the cost of servicing the debt was equivalent to 25.0% of the value of exports of goods, services and income. According to official figures, the average annual rate of inflation was 4.0% in 2014-23. Consumer prices increased by 14.4% in 2022 and by 11.4% in 2023. Some 3.1% of the labour force were unemployed in the fourth quarter of 2023.</p>
               <!--source CPI https://stat.gov.pl/obszary-tematyczne/ceny-handel/wskazniki-cen/zharmonizowane-wskazniki-cen-konsumpcyjnych-hicp,10,1.html# CPI with base= 2015 data available NR (15 march 2023).-->
               <p>
        Poland recorded growth during 1992-2019, which was interrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020; the Government in March announced an anti-crisis programme to mitigate the economic impact, including compensation for affected workers and businesses. GDP growth rebounded by 5.7% in 2021. However, further post-pandemic recovery was impeded by the impact of the Russian Federation’s invasion of Ukraine in late February 2022, and Poland’s subsequent participation in 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="WB02047.IO.TXT">European Union (EU)</xr>
         sanctions against Russia. Elevated global food and energy prices caused a sharp rise in domestic consumer price inflation. Russia terminated gas exports to Poland in April, after the Polish Government refused to accede to Russian demands that it pay for supplies in Russian roubles. An EU-funded pipeline for the import of natural gas from Norway (the Baltic Pipe), which was intended to reduce Poland’s dependence on supplies from Russia, became fully operational in November. The arrival of some 1.5m. refugees from Ukraine was expected to assist with labour market shortages in the short term. Poland’s National Recovery and Resilience Plan (NRRP) was endorsed by the European Commission in June 2022, but EU payments under its Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF), and cohesion funds totalling €76,500m., were subsequently withheld, as a result of protracted conflict over the rule of law in Poland (see 
        <i>Regional Relations</i>
        ). GDP growth slowed to 4.9% in 2022. In November the European Commission approved a modified NRRP, which was henceforth allocated €59,800m. (€34,500m. in loans and €25,300m. in grants). The pro-EU Platforma Obywatelska (PO—Civic Platform) returned to government in December, after elections. Following the new Government’s presentation of an action plan designed to restore the independence of the judiciary, in February 2024 the EU announced its decision to unblock the RRF and cohesion funds allocated to Poland. The first RRF tranche of €6.300m. was accordingly released in mid-April. The Government’s budget for 2024 included substantial salary rises for teachers and other public sector employees, and increased monthly payments under an existing child benefit scheme (in accordance with PO electoral pledges). According to official preliminary figures, GDP growth slowed sharply to 0.2% in 2023, as high inflation continued to suppress household spending. (However, the annual inflation rate dropped to the central bank’s target level of 1.9% in March 2024.)
      </p>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="PL.IS.70" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Public Holidays</heading>
               <public-holidays>
                    <holiday-year>
                         <year>2025</year>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>1 January</date>
                              <holiday-name>New Year’s Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>6 January</date>
                              <holiday-name>Epiphany</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>21 April</date>
                              <holiday-name>Easter Monday</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>1 May</date>
                              <holiday-name>State Holiday</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>3 May</date>
                              <holiday-name>Polish National Day, Proclamation of 1791 Constitution</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>19 June</date>
                              <holiday-name>Corpus Christi</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>15 August</date>
                              <holiday-name>Assumption</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>1 November</date>
                              <holiday-name>All Saints’ Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>11 November</date>
                              <holiday-name>Independence Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>25-26 December</date>
                              <holiday-name>Christmas</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                    </holiday-year>
               </public-holidays>
          </is-section>
     </is-section>
</intro-survey>