<?xml version="1.0"?>
<essay id="CAS.ESSAY.6" id-root="cas" iso="case.essay" region="CASEE" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ESSAY-REF" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>The Impact of the People’s Republic of China in Central and South-Eastern Europe</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">General Survey</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">The Impact of the People’s Republic of China</alt-heading>
     <author-group>
          <primary-authors>
               <person-name>
                    <forename>Anastas</forename>
                    <surname>Vangeli</surname>
               </person-name>
          </primary-authors>
     </author-group>
     <p>Assistant Professor, School of Economics and Business, University of Ljubljana, Slovenia.</p>
     <p />
     <p>The expansion of the relationship between the People’s Republic of China and the countries of Central and South-Eastern Europe (CASEE) has been one of the most unexpected developments in Europe-China relations in the last decade. Starting with its pro-active policies in the region in the aftermath of the global financial crisis of 2008-09, over only a few years China—which previously had a negligible presence in the area—emerged as a significant external actor in, and a factor for, the future development of the countries of the region. Although the China-CASEE relationship followed a predominantly geoeconomic logic, this changed as the USA, under President Donald Trump (2017-21), launched a trade war against China and proclaimed it a national security threat, and as the European Union (EU) adopted a more securitized approach towards China after 2016. As a result, China-CASEE relations have inevitably assumed a particular geopolitical significance. The COVID-19 pandemic that started in the CASEE region in early 2020 and the war in Ukraine following the Russian invasion of February 2022 have added to the complexity of the relationship.</p>
     <p>The development of the new China-CASEE relations in the past decade was unexpected, primarily due to the fact that by the 2010s China and the CASEE region had grown distant from each another. During their post-socialist transition in the 1990s and early 2000s, for the most part, the countries of the region were preoccupied with their own internal challenges (of varying scope and complexity), and dedicated the largest share of their foreign policy resources towards the agenda of double integration into the EU and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), with the exception of parts of the former Yugoslavia (although by the 2010s Serbia had become an EU candidate country, and developed constructive relations with NATO). In the 1990s many countries in the region adopted an ideologically charged and unfavourable view of China, which served as a reminder of their own communist past. Up until the global financial crisis, in terms of its European foreign policy, China primarily focused on deepening its economic and cultural links with the highly developed Western European countries, dedicating limited attention to CASEE, as the region mattered little in terms of China’s economic agenda. By the mid-2000s the links built during the Cold War era had gradually eroded and the two sides had grown further apart.</p>
     <p>The context of the relationship changed profoundly after the global financial crisis, which China weathered much more successfully than Europe and the USA, and which left, in particular, the CASEE region uncertain about its economic future. In 2009 a visit to the region by the then Chinese Vice-President, Xi Jinping, was a pivotal moment for the promotion of a novel, Chinese approach, drawing on China’s own position as a rising global economic power. Under the banner of pragmatism, in this period Chinese diplomats proposed the joint pursuit of economic prosperity (labelled as `win-win co-operation’), comprising increased (and more balanced) trade, investment and other forms of mutually beneficial economic co-operation. Such an approach complemented the needs of the CASEE countries during the post-crisis era, and facilitated China’s smooth entrance into the region. Importantly, rising interest in the region about the prospect of increased co-operation with China was aligned with the zeitgeist, as around the time of the global financial crisis both the EU states and the USA continued to pursue a policy of proactive engagement with China, based on the aims of economic interdependence and the development of constructive relations. In fact, the new relationship between China and the CASEE region had been promoted as an attempt for China to regain ground in its relations with the less developed part of Europe, although even today the scale of its relationship with the region remains insignificant in comparison with its relationship with Western Europe.</p>
     <p>Thus, seizing the moment, in 2011 China initiated a special mechanism for regional co-operation and policy co-ordination, which originally included 16 CASEE countries, all of them post-communist, and was dubbed `16+1’: Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic (Czechia), Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia and Slovenia. The format was expanded to include the first country without a communist past, Greece, in 2019, prompting a change in informal references to the China-CASEE co-operation initiative to `17+1’. By 2022, however, Lithuania, followed by Latvia and Estonia, had announced their departure, leaving open the question of referring to the co-operation mechanism in terms of number of members.</p>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Building China-CASEE Relations</heading>
          <p>China convened the 16 countries at the formal level for the first time in 2011, at a trade forum in Budapest, Hungary. In April 2012, at a summit held in Warsaw, Poland, the then Premier of China, Wen Jiabao, unveiled an ambitious plan for co-operation centred on strengthening political and economic ties, and streamlining policies in fields such as tourism, culture, education and beyond. In September China formalized the partnership by establishing a special secretariat to oversee China’s relations with the group of countries, which has since maintained regular communication and co-ordination with the Ministries of Foreign Affairs and embassies of the participating countries in the Chinese capital, Beijing.</p>
          <p>From 2012 China-CASEE relations advanced through annual summits of heads of governments and business forums, which were held in Bucharest, Romania, in 2013; Belgrade, Serbia, in 2014; Suzhou, China, in 2015; Rīga, Latvia, in 2016; Budapest in 2017; Sofia, Bulgaria, in 2018, and Dubrovnik, Croatia, in 2019. In 2020, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the `17+1’ summit (originally planned to take place in Beijing) was postponed, and finally held as a video conference in February 2021. During the first years of co-operation these summits were convened by the Chinese Prime Minister; however, in recent years the Chinese President, Xi Jinping, has largely assumed the honours. The summits have been usually attended by CASEE heads of government, with the occasional participation of lower-ranking officials. During the 2021 summit observers noted the lowest level of CASEE representation ever, as six countries (Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania and Slovenia) had lower-ranking representatives (deputy premiers or ministers) taking part at the summit. This was interpreted as a reflection of changing perceptions of China in the region, which had become less friendly compared with those of a decade ago.</p>
          <p>Each China-CASEE summit produced practical collective guidelines for future co-operation and a detailed list of activities to be undertaken. In addition, on the sidelines of the summits, a number of bilateral deals between China and participating countries were arranged. External observers, including representatives from Austria, Belarus, Switzerland, and institutions of the EU and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as well as Greece before it officially joined in 2019, have all taken part in China-CASEE summits. The summits have attracted significant attention in the international press, and have often been portrayed as indicators of the increasing influence of China outside its own borders, in particular in Europe.</p>
          <p>Significant multilateral interaction has taken place in between the annual summits, as China-CASEE forums of practitioners and experts in various fields have expanded over the years. The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs has considered these exchanges to be key achievements of China’s relations with the region, while Chinese commentators have called `17+1’ a `people-to-people’ platform, the primary function of which is to bring people of all professions, from China and the CASEE region, closer to each other. The scale, scope, frequency and intensity of social interactions under the China-led format in the pre-COVID era have indeed been unprecedented for any non-Western actor in the region, demonstrating China’s significant resources and dedication to such undertakings.</p>
          <p>Although critics have pointed out the limited tangible outcomes of many such events, the numerous people-to-people exchanges profoundly changed perceptions of China, not only in CASEE and Europe as a whole, but also globally. The increased interaction not only exposed an unprecedented number of regional actors to first-hand contact and experience in interacting with China, it also brought an unprecedented number of Chinese representatives into contact with the CASEE region and helped them gain international experience. With the COVID-19 pandemic, however, events were moved online, or postponed altogether until after the pandemic, which represented a major setback for China’s activity in the region.</p>
          <p>In the pre-COVID era, China also initiated a very complex decentralized web of intergovernmental quasi-institutions for co-operation with CASEE, for example secretariats for co-ordination in a number of policy sectors at the ministerial level (agriculture, tourism, education, health care, maritime affairs, etc.). Some of these secretariats were based in China, but most were distributed throughout different CASEE countries. Some were much more active than others; overall, assessments of their efficacy have been mixed. However, their very existence was already a significant development, as they provided channels for quick and efficient communication between Beijing and the region’s capitals. During the COVID-19 pandemic, for instance, the China-CASEE mechanism for health care co-operation assumed a central role in co-ordinating the arrangement of both commercial and aid shipments of medical and protective equipment from China to the CASEE region, and other forms of co-operation relating to the global crisis.</p>
          <p>Apart from the official events and channels for communication and co-ordination, as a result of the promotion of China-CASEE co-operation, there was unprecedented interest from, and a presence of, Chinese representatives and entities in the region. Most notable have been Chinese companies, both state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and privately owned/publicly listed businesses, which have pursued investment opportunities and contracts in the region. Chinese construction SOEs have been major beneficiaries of infrastructure financing in the Western Balkan countries, but have also won competitive tenders for national and European funding, the most notable being the case of the China Road and Bridge Corporation (CRBC) securing the tender for the construction of the Pejlešac bridge in Croatia. For some companies, China-CASEE co-operation provided an opportunity to advance their position on the European market, by acquiring champions in the region (e.g. Chinese electronics manufacturer Hisense’s acquisition of Slovenian enterprise Gorenje), or through `greenfield’ (e.g. the global leader Shandong Linglong Tire Company in Serbia) or `brownfield’ (e.g. the state-owned China Ocean Shipping Company—COSCO—in Greece’s Piraeus Port Authority) investments. However, there have been limits to China’s progress. For example, its telecommunications firm Huawei, while significantly expanding its presence in the region during the early 2010s, both by becoming a significant vendor of telecommunications equipment, and by investing in research and developments, in recent years has been targeted as a result of the changing discourse on connective infrastructure in the USA and the EU. Moreover, a number of other Chinese companies have simply not withstood the test of the market in CASEE and had to retreat (for example the Great Wall Motor Company in Bulgaria).</p>
          <p>Aside from Chinese companies, other actors made inroads in the region, including in the areas of knowledge production (such as research institutes, universities, or Confucius Institutes, which promote Chinese language and culture), media, and various civic organizations. As a result, for the CASEE countries overall relations with China became ever more complex and dynamic, involving interaction with an increasing number of Chinese stakeholders.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Belt and Road Initiative</heading>
          <p>What China undertook in the region in terms of developing institutions and policy co-ordination mechanisms was to a great extent unprecedented for a non-Western actor, in terms of both its regional and global contexts. The CASEE region has played an important role in China’s global vision, best expressed by China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), a call for global action led by China that is centred on the promotion of policy co-ordination and comprehensively defined connectivity, and ultimately the alignment of the development agendas of many countries and regions around the globe with that of China, and vice versa.</p>
          <p>While the `17+1’ format formally predates the BRI, as with many other areas of China’s foreign policy, its co-operation with the CASEE region has been retroactively assigned the BRI label, of which, moreover, it has been claimed to be an important part. The New Silk Road metaphor was used to describe China’s vision for CASEE as far back as the 2000s. In practice then, the `17+1’ platform for deepening relations with CASEE has been a significant pilot project in China’s new, proactive diplomacy, which can provide valuable insights for the development of similar diplomatic endeavours, including those in Africa, Latin America or the Pacific Islands. Frequently, Chinese policymakers and experts have themselves referred to CASEE as a laboratory for China’s brand of novel multilateral diplomacy. This has several implications for the region.</p>
          <p>If BRI is viewed through a normative perspective, then its state-developmentalist logic—based on China’s own economic trajectory—comes to the fore. China’s global outreach is centred on the ideas and practices associated with its own model and experience, and the target countries are primarily those of the global periphery and semi-periphery. From the vantage point of Chinese officials, CASEE countries belong to the latter group, since regardless of their level of development (i.e. some are more developed than others), they all share a dependent capitalist development trajectory (that is, the key factor for their economic development is the inflow of capital from highly developed economies). According to the understanding of Chinese policymakers, this makes the region part of (or at least similar to) the Global South (broadly Latin America, Asia, Africa and the Pacific islands), or rather a pocket of the South inside the Global North (broadly the highly developed Western democracies). Consequently, China has tried to replicate its Global South policies in the region as well. Such framing and practices have caused much controversy in the region and have had limited success—primarily in the least developed countries of the Western Balkans, but not in the CASEE countries that are EU member states.</p>
          <p>BRI is also presented as a vision of transregional connectivity, associated with images of ports, railroads, highways, pipelines, electrical grids and telecommunications towers. In such an interpretation of the BRI, the CASEE region can be defined as an important physical section of the initiative. The region is part of the so-called New Eurasian Land Bridge (one of the economic corridors that constitute the Silk Road Economic Belt), while a number of maritime routes envisioned under the Maritime Silk Road also pass through or connect to the region via the ports in the Aegean, Adriatic, Black and Baltic Seas. In this essentially cartographic understanding of China’s vision for the region, the CASEE countries come after the Russian Federation, Belarus and Central Asia on the passage from China’s inner provinces and regions to Western Europe. The region also neighbours Türkiye and the wider Mediterranean, areas of strategic importance to the BRI. The BRI then provides the encompassing term for the ongoing, planned or desired infrastructure construction projects, and investments in maritime ports, energy capacities, as well as communications infrastructure, in the region.</p>
          <p>Prior to the war in Ukraine from February 2022, there was a steady growth in the use of rail routes for the transportation of goods from China to Europe and back. While the war has inevitably affected the vision for a Silk Road Economic Belt extending through Eurasia, some of the overland routes passing through Russia have persisted even following the war and the ensuing international sanctions imposed against Russia, while global logistics and transport companies have adopted alternative routes from CASEE that traverse the Black Sea, the Caucasus and Central Asia en route to China.</p>
          <p>The BRI is, in sum, the vision that provides the common denominator for a myriad of undertakings in the region, including several transport and energy infrastructure projects in the Balkans carried out by Chinese companies, but also notably the construction of the EU-funded Pejlešac bridge in Croatia, under the tender secured by Chinese state-owned CRBC; a project to modernize Poland’s Czyżew-Białystok railway line by a Sino-Polish consortium (including the Chinese state-owned Sinohydro Corporation); the emergence of Greece’s Piraeus as one of Europe’s busiest ports, after its incremental acquisition by COSCO since 2009; and Hebei Iron and Steel’s transformation of the Železara Smederevo steelworks in Serbia from a loss-making company to the country’s largest exporter in 2018, after its acquisition in 2016. All these and other cases have been lauded as great successes in China-CASEE relations by Chinese diplomats and by those who embrace the `China opportunity’ narrative in the region. However, they have also been a source of criticism and resistance. Although initially China’s arrival in the region was seen as a strategic success, over time there was a swing to a more critical perception of and even resistance to the growing Chinese presence in some CASEE countries, a process that has again followed contemporary developments in the geopolitical rivalry between the USA and China, and the emerging tensions between the EU and China after 2016.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Geopolitical Contention</heading>
          <p>China’s global vision and the way it has been implemented in the region has been received with much scepticism in the West, and so has its involvement in CASEE overall. China’s depoliticized, economically-orientated attitude towards the region has been often re-examined and considered in terms of security (broadly defined), and reinterpreted as posing strategic, economic and normative threats for the interests of both the EU and the USA, as well as for the national security of CASEE countries. Projects have been re-examined in terms of utility, sustainability and adherence to principles of good governance, and have often been deemed to be of `corrosive’ quality.</p>
          <p>Since the inception of the `17+1’ platform, EU policymakers have accused China of circumventing them in developing relations with the region, sowing discord among Europeans, and advancing a form of co-operation that runs counter to EU practices and norms (both within existing member states and in the candidate countries for membership). They have also criticized the CASEE countries for breaking ranks with the EU by engaging with China independently, without EU co-ordination. The EU has therefore gradually embraced a critical position toward China-CASEE relations, which has corresponded with the general trend towards a hardened stance on China. There has been emerging consensus among EU officials and the leaders of the core EU countries that `17+1’ is a vehicle to advance China’s interests that ultimately damages the overall China-EU relationship. This critical stance of the EU has contributed to a sharpening tone towards China in the CASEE region as well.</p>
          <p>The USA initially paid little attention to China-CASEE relations, but after the shift in its foreign policy under the Trump Administration from around 2017, it rapidly adopted a confrontational stance towards China in the region, seeking to bring CASEE countries to its side in the global confrontation against the Chinese threat. The USA has accused China of manipulating countries in the region, creating debt obligations by offering excessive credit in a form of debt-trap diplomacy, spreading non-democratic and illiberal ideas and practices, and infringing sovereignty, while criticizing China for its close co-operation with Russia and other authoritarian countries. Senior US foreign policy figures have frequently travelled to the region and explicitly warned their hosts of the growing Chinese influence. US foundations have increasingly supported research and awareness-raising on the topic of Chinese influence in the region.</p>
          <p>Overall, in strategic terms, the US campaign has been much more impactful than that of the EU in deterring countries in the region from pursuing deeper co-operation with China. For example, Poland and the Czech Republic were among the first European countries to ban Huawei from providing 5G mobile network infrastructure, and overall the region became one of the bastions of the US-led Clean Network initiative. Increasingly, CASEE countries have been joining international criticism of China, led by the USA, on issues of human rights (particularly regarding its Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region and Hong Kong) and territorial and sovereignty issues (South China Sea and Taiwan). The EU itself has struggled to find a proper position and unified voice on China, often promoting the approach that China is simultaneously a strategic partner, economic competitor and systemic rival—which has been less convincing than the US strategic competition approach. Moreover, some leading Western European countries, despite the tough discourse on China, have remained in a relationship of high economic interdependence with it, which makes Europe seem less convincing when talking about confronting China. These trends have been reflected in recent developments in 2023: as the EU has been trying to formulate a nuanced `de-risking’ approach towards China—that would be less antagonistic than the US approach of de-coupling—the national leaders of France and Germany, as well as European companies, have been developing much more open relations with China.</p>
          <p>Beyond strategic concerns, both the EU and the USA have expressed their unease with the modality of co-operation between China and the CASEE region. Doubts have been raised with regard to the transparency of projects, respect of fair market competition, financial and environmental sustainability, and labour standards. The landmark Budapest-Belgrade railway project undertaken in co-operation with China has been probed by the European Commission, which considered it of questionable financial viability. Other infrastructure projects, most notably the Bar-Boljare highway in Montenegro that was constructed by CRBC (the first highway ever built in the country), have raised concerns about the level of indebtedness, and prompted the EU to assist the country in refinancing the project. Highways in North Macedonia have been a subject of a major corruption scandal. The European companies that lost the Pejlešac tender to CRBC have alleged malpractice, and raised the alarm for future tenders within the EU. The private consortium CEFC China Energy had made major investments in the Czech Republic, only to be implicated in corruption scandals in China, sanctioned, and forced to transfer its assets to the state conglomerate CITIC Group. Energy and industrial projects attracted criticism for their adverse environmental impact (for example, most of the energy projects pursued by Chinese concerns in South-Eastern Europe were based on fossil fuels, and many notable investments have been made in polluting industries), while some of the major greenfield investments, such as the Shandong Linglong factory in Serbia, have been marred by controversies regarding labour—including the harsh treatment of posted Asian workers. Likewise, Piraeus port in Greece or the Gorenje acquisition in Slovenia, otherwise lauded as flagship projects in co-operation with China, have frequently been marred by issues around labour rights.</p>
          <p>As a result of the perceived detrimental impact of China in the region, both the EU and the USA have stepped up their policy responses, in addition to expressions of concern and pressure on local actors to rethink their relationship with China. While the CASEE region was not the sole and central prompt, the EU introduced a foreign investment screening mechanism in 2020, and by 2023 had developed a security-orientated economic strategy centred on `de-risking’ its relations with China. The EU has, in particular, focused on the enlargement area in the Western Balkans, introducing a number of instruments to support infrastructure development and economic investment. Beyond the Balkans, after launching an EU-Asia Connectivity Strategy, the EU launched the Global Gateway initiative, its own response to the BRI, in which the CASEE region features prominently. The USA has mobilized countries in the region through the Three Seas Initiative (a regional co-operation concept initially promoted by China), and enlisted them into the Clean Network initiative aiming to prevent Chinese 5G vendors from entering the market. Former NATO Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen established the global Alliance of Democracies Foundation to counter China on the ideological side, with a prominent role being assigned to some CASEE countries. The USA has also joined the competition around global infrastructure construction, not least by launching the Build Back Better World (B3W) initiative, later reformulated as the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment (PGII), a joint G7-led endeavour, which includes the CASEE region.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>The CASEE Region’s Evolving Position on China</heading>
          <p>With modest expertise on China and little experience as autonomous actors in world politics, initially policymakers and experts from the CASEE region were unprepared for China’s sudden enthusiasm for regional co-operation in the aftermath of the global financial crisis. However, while China’s proactivity, and the responses by the EU and the USA, have greatly shaped the discourse on Global China in the region, the agency of CASEE countries has been equally important in understanding how these relations and their interpretation have developed over time. Their responses have been more complex than simply choosing a side in the big power competition, emerging through a process of gradual learning and adaptation to changing geopolitical and geoeconomic realities. With the arrival of China, the CASEE elites explored their own capacities as actors in world affairs, but also used China as an instrument in front of their domestic audiences.</p>
          <p>In practice, until the mid-2010s the regional approach to co-operation passively acquiesced with the Chinese state-framed discourse, to some extent enticed by the great promise of the material gains that would follow from the relationship with China. For most of the countries, the relationship with China also meant an increase in their visibility in the global arena, and stepping out of the role of small, diplomatically insignificant players. This emerging consensus on the co-operation between China and CASEE simultaneously favoured pragmatism and left aside the potentially contentious ideological issues that had previously characterized the regional discourse on China (including the communist past), while also avoiding tense geopolitical discussions.</p>
          <p>Observable differences have been evident between different countries in the region, and different sub-regions (i.e. the Balkans, the Visegrad Group countries and the Baltic states). Significantly poorer than the European average, the Balkan countries have been more enthusiastic about China, and considered co-operation with China of greater importance than the rest of the CASEE region. Given the much smaller size of the Balkan economies, China’s increasing presence has also played a proportionately more significant role in the region. The Visegrad countries (the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia), economically the most advanced and well integrated into global value chains, expected co-operation in more advanced and value-added areas. The Baltic states (Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania), meanwhile, have been cautious about the relationship with China, not least as a result of their position at the European border with Russia. </p>
          <p>There have been also some distinct national trajectories in the relationship with China. Hungary under Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has been among the most vocal supporters of closer co-operation with China in Europe, and he sometimes even referenced China as an example that Hungary and Europe can learn from. Serbia under President Aleksandar Vučić has, likewise, been a great proponent of close relations with China, although in practice Vučić attempted to balance the relationship with China with close relations with the EU and the USA, which has been apparent in Serbia’s official support for Ukraine from 2022, despite historic ties and popular sympathies with Russia. Poland has primarily sought to use the relationship with China to boost its position as the country with the greatest geopolitical weight in the region. Greece, in large part, regarded China as a lever to help extract itself from its prolonged debt crisis. In the Czech Republic, China has been the subject of fierce internal political divisions. Romania has transitioned from being a relatively open country for Chinese opportunities to becoming highly sceptical. However, Lithuania has experienced the most dramatic change in attitude, not only confronting China on various issues, but also significantly strengthening its ties with Taiwan, which led China to downgrade its relations with Lithuania, and the suspension of its participation in China-led initiatives, which inspired similar moves by Latvia and Estonia in the second half of 2022.</p>
          <p>In general, while the first years of the co-operation between China and the CASEE region were marked by a sense of optimism in the region, during the last few years more critical attitudes have become evident. Optimism still exists; however, it is much less prominent compared with only a few years ago. Nevertheless, ever since the emergence of the new China-CASEE relationship, two fault lines with regard to China have been apparent in the region, which over time have not only persisted, but have became increasingly strong and have caused a degree of China fatigue.</p>
          <p>First, while some within the region embraced the opportunities offered by China, many considered China’s offer to be too good to be true—or mismatching the developmental realities, needs and capabilities of the countries in the region. By 2023 the general consensus across the CASEE region is that, economically, a number of expected successes of co-operation with China have not materialized, despite some favourable outcomes. Critics make reference to the persistently high trade deficits that the countries of the region maintain with China, the significantly lower amount of Chinese investment received by the region in comparison with the more developed countries of the EU, and problems with sustainability and issues around governance in cases where a boost in economic activity and job creation are expected, such as the anticipated opening of the new CATL EV car battery factory in Hungary. Intra-regional discrepancies have also been a source of criticism: the non-EU countries of the Western Balkans, for instance, have received much greater investment and more loans to pursue infrastructure projects, which has prompted observations from the rest of the region that the `17+1’ initiative is not sufficiently well-adapted to the EU countries that take part in it. Cases often lauded as successful (such as the Piraeus port and the Železara Smederevo steelworks) have been portrayed as primarily of benefit to China, and much less so for the region. In many countries, China has become a domestically contentious political issue, making decision-making with respect to China more challenging than ever.</p>
          <p>Second, while China’s depoliticized tone was embraced by some in the CASEE region, others were alarmed about the potential for geopolitical friction—with the West, but also potentially stemming from the close co-operation between China and Russia. China’s insistence on depoliticized discourse ultimately, then, had the opposite effect to that intended. With the securitization of US-China and EU-China relations in the post-2016 period, critical geopolitical perspectives became more dominant in the region, and over time became the main lens through which relations with China were evaluated. With ever more assertive Western allies, the CASEE countries have remained fully aligned with EU and NATO, which increasingly has meant adopting a harder stance towards China. A prominent exception to this has been Hungary, which has not only remained China’s closest partner in the EU, but has also opposed an approach focused on sanctions when dealing with Russia.</p>
          <p>The outbreak of COVID-19 in early 2020 put much of the China-CASEE interaction on hold. Once the pandemic reached Europe, China began to provide assistance and export medical and protective equipment to the region, and attempted to push forward its narrative, as well as to deepen co-operation in health care and digital technologies. This won China some sympathy, but also caused some criticism. However, the political, economic and societal ramifications of the crisis in Europe, and the worsening of EU-China and US-China relations have led to the countries of the region to internalize a zero-sum logic with regard to their global positioning and relations with China. As the EU and the USA have brought democracy and human rights to the centre of the discussion on China, this has had an impact throughout the CASEE region. Lithuania has chosen to develop close relations with Taiwan, which led China to impose economic sanctions in reprisal, in turn prompting the Lithuanian Government to suspend its participation in Chinese-led multilateral formats. Czech political elites have traditionally also sympathized with Taiwan, as have representatives from other countries in the region.</p>
          <p>The conflict in Ukraine, which started on 24 February 2022, represents a further historical turning point for China-CASEE relations. For much of the region (with the exception of Hungary and Serbia), the war led to high levels of alert, and the demonstration of closer co-ordination and commitment to the Euro-Atlantic agenda. China, meanwhile, while having significant economic stakes in Ukraine and, in principle, being opposed to violations of territorial integrity, opted not to confront Russia, and, moreover, to express sympathy with its position (that is the alleged security interests that had motivated the Russian invasion). Thus, in the first months of the war the China’s perceived support for the Russian position had strongly injurious consequences for China-CASEE relations, even though regional debates on the conflict did not focus extensively on China. With emotions in the region inflamed, economic and humanitarian crises looming, and the future more uncertain than ever, relations with China, rather than being broken off, had faded into a temporary obsolescence. China too had also largely withdrawn from the region, not only in reaction to the changing geopolitical situation, but also because of its own domestic woes following the resurgence of the COVID-19 pandemic in the country, economic turbulence, and the milestone National Congress of the Chinese Communist Party that took place in late 2022 amid various uncertainties. In 2023, with Xi Jinping firmly in charge, China has slowly emerged from its COVID-19 lockdowns, and has countered geopolitical pressures by reinvigorating its pro-active, globally orientated foreign policy. Europe has had an important role in China’s new strategy. However, this new strategy has once again considered the Western European core, particularly France and Germany, as well as leading European companies, to be of primary importance. Communication channels with CASEE have remained open, and low-profile exchanges have restarted. With a major overhaul of the BRI in the offing, it remains to be seen whether China can restore the momentum it had built in the region a decade ago.</p>
     </gen-section>
</essay>