<?xml version="1.0"?>
<essay id="CAS.ESSAY.1" id-root="cas" iso="cas.essay" region="CASEE" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ESSAY-REF" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>Russian Influence in South-Eastern Europe</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">General Survey</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Russian Influence in South-Eastern Europe</alt-heading>
     <author-group>
          <primary-authors>
               <person-name>
                    <forename>Dimitar</forename>
                    <surname>Bechev</surname>
               </person-name>
          </primary-authors>
     </author-group>
     <p>Lecturer, Oxford School of Global and Area Studies, University of Oxford, United Kingdom, and visiting scholar, Carnegie Europe, Brussels, Belgium.</p>
     <p />
     <p>test changes When the crisis in Ukraine began with the Russian Federation’s annexation of
    the Crimean p     eninsula in March 2014, international policymakers noted with increasing concern
    Russia’s growing involvement in Balkan affairs. Russia seemed to be present in every sphere,
    with an influence that spans from regional diplomacy, to the energy sector, to party politics.
    Its embassy in Bosnia and Herzegovina consistently supported threats by President Milorad Dodik
    of the Bosnian Serb entity, Republika Srpska, to hold a secessionist referendum that would
    jeopardize the Dayton peace accords of 1995. Russia furthermore intensified its rhetoric against
    expansion by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the European Union (EU) to the
    Western Balkans, which—in the not-so-distant past—it had tacitly accepted as inevitable. Members
    of the Russian security services were officially accused of having orchestrated a coup attempt
    in Montenegro in October 2016 (see below), with the apparent aim of preventing the country from
    joining NATO (RFE/RL, 2017). Russia had, furthermore, increased security and defence
    co-operation with non-aligned Serbia, which otherwise claimed that integration into the EU was a
    priority (Szpala, 2014; Reljić, 2017).</p>
     <p>
    Russian influence remained strong in EU member states such as Greece and Bulgaria after 2014 (Bechev, 2015; Conley et al., 2016; Filis 2017; Orenstein and Kelemen, 2017). Leaders in those countries expressed criticism of the Western sanctions imposed against Russia following the annexation of Crimea and subsequent separatist conflict in eastern Ukraine, claiming them to be counter-productive, ineffective and harmful for their countries. Like Serbia, Bulgaria and Greece continued to participate in Russian-initiated infrastructure projects in the area of natural gas. The two countries refused to expel Russian diplomats in response to the nerve agent attack against a former Russian intelligence services agent, Sergei Skripal, and his daughter in Salisbury, United Kingdom, in March 2018, unlike the majority of NATO and EU members. Only in October 2019-January 2020 did Bulgaria move to declare Russian diplomatic staff 
    <i>personae non gratae</i>
    , over a 2015 poisoning potentially connected to the Skripal case. Further to the north-west, Croatia and Slovenia similarly explored ways to deepen economic ties with Russia, not unlike neighbouring Serbia. With the exception of Romania, most nations in the region have tended to view Russia as a source of opportunity, rather than as a threat. Unsurprisingly, the Russian Government welcomed such attitudes, as it attempted to foster divisions within the EU and NATO, and to reduce the impact of sanctions.
  </p>
     <p>The Russian Federation’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 heightened the risk of Russia increasing pressure against the West in the region. Russian and pro-Russian media outlets continued to spread disinformation about the conflict. Although most countries sided with the EU and NATO in condemning the aggression and offering military aid to Ukraine, Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, in particular, refused to cut ties with Russia. However, the worst fears of Russia opening a second front in the Balkans or exacerbating local conflicts were not realized.</p>
     <p>This essay takes a closer look at the channels, mechanisms and outcomes of Russia’s involvement in South-Eastern Europe. It argues that, rather than attempt to remove the EU and NATO presence and replace them as a local hegemon, Russia has acted primarily as a `spoiler’. Its strategic objective has been to gain leverage in the context of a general stand-off with the West playing out across different issues and regional settings, from post-Soviet Eastern Europe, to the Syrian Arab Republic, to the former Yugoslavia. South-Eastern Europe provides plentiful opportunities, on account of Russia’s ties to governments, economic agents, and societies in the region. What follows is an overview of Russian influence in three critical areas: security affairs, the economy and domestic politics.</p>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>The Security Dimension</heading>
          <p>With regard to Russia’s influence on security and defence, South-Eastern Europe is divided into two groups. On one side are those states that border directly the post-Soviet space and Russia itself: first and foremost Romania and Bulgaria, which are both Black Sea littoral nations, as well as members of NATO. The second group comprises countries that are not adjacent to Russia: Greece, the Western Balkans, including Croatia (a member of both the EU and NATO), and Albania and Montenegro (both in NATO). For these last states, Russia did not pose a direct threat. The military build-up in annexed Crimea, introducing near Russian dominance in the Black Sea, of direct concern to Romania, Turkey (known as Türkiye from mid-2022) and Bulgaria (Gou and Manea, 2015; Bugajski and Doran, 2016), had less dramatic ramifications for the second group. Russia’s closest partner in South-Eastern Europe, Serbia, is also located within the Western Balkans.</p>
          <p>Following the conclusion of a defence co-operation agreement in 2013, the ties between Russia and Serbia deepened. Under a parliamentary resolution of 2007, Serbia is committed to a policy of non-alignment, which rules out accession to military blocs. However, that has been no obstacle to developing relations with the Russian Government. The two militaries have conducted joint military exercises regularly since November 2014, both in Serbia and in Russia. After lengthy negoti­ations, in December 2016 Russia agreed to donate six surplus MiG-29 fighter jets, 30 T-72 tanks and 30 BRDM-2 armoured reconnaissance vehicles to Serbia (Božinovski, 2016). The first two jets were delivered in August 2018, after undergoing a comprehensive overhaul at Serbia’s expense, and the rest of the batch were delivered in February 2019. Russian news agency TASS also reported that the Serbian Government had agreed to purchase seven Mi-35 and three Mi-17 helicopters. The announcement was made by President Aleksandar Vučić in mid-January after he, together with several thousand Serbians, gave Russian President Vladimir Putin an unstinting welcome in Belgrade, the Serbian capital. Media loyal to Vučić have hailed defence co-operation with Russia as a step towards redressing the military balance with neighbouring Croatia (an adversary in the conflict of the 1990s), which has been modernizing its armed forces. Serbia put its forces on display with a military parade in May 2019, imitating the large-scale annual event held in Red Square in Moscow, the Russian capital. Serbia enjoys observer status in the Russian-led Collective Security Treaty Organization, and hosts a Russian `humanitarian centre’ in the southern city of Niš, situated not far from the former Serbian province of Kosovo, which Western officials suspect of being an intelligence outpost under the guise of a search and rescue mission (Djurdjić, 2017).</p>
          <p>At the same time, Serbia has pursued active co-operation with NATO. It signed an Individual Partnership Agreement with NATO in January 2015, and has followed closely the Membership Action Plans signed with accession candidates. Serbia also has a partnership with the US Army’s Ohio National Guard. Serbian officials point out that during 2016 the army carried out some 200 activities with NATO and the USA, compared with just 17 with Russia (Wilson, Marušić and Bedenbaugh, 2017). In early 2016, then Serbian Prime Minister, Vučić refused to cede to pressure from pro-Russian demonstrators to hold a referendum on NATO membership (which would clearly have resulted in a resounding `no’). In November 2019 Russia found itself at the centre of an espionage scandal, after evidence emerged that its security operatives had tried to recruit a retired Serbian military officer. Overall, Serbian security policy has been one of balancing itself between Russia and the West (Konitzer, 2011; Szpala, 2014; Reljić, 2017). However, this policy of equidistance, or `sitting on two chairs’ as US Deputy Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs Hoyt Brian Yee characterized it (Balkan Insight, 2017), has allowed Russia to insert itself in the region. Serbia has also cultivated economic and diplomatic ties with the People’s Republic of China, highlighted by China’s dispatch of medical aid and vaccines to Serbia in 2020-21 during the COVID-19 pandemic.</p>
          <p>Another pillar in Russia’s policy has been its vehement opposition to NATO enlargement in the former Yugoslavia. Montenegro, a country where Russian investment has played a prominent role since the 1990s, has been at the epicentre of the conflict. Russian state media and its Ministry of Foreign Affairs supported anti-Government protests held from late 2015 in the Montenegrin capital, Podgorica, against NATO membership and high-level corruption. The crisis continued, and on the eve of parliamentary elections in October 2016 the Montenegrin authorities announced they had thwarted a conspiracy to overthrow the Government, assassinate Prime Minister Milo Đukanović and prevent Montenegro’s entry into NATO (Bechev, 2017). The alleged conspiracy was led, according to the prosecutors, by dissident security officers from Serbia, instructed by Russia’s foreign military intelligence agency of the General Staff of the Armed Forces (widely known by its previous acronym, GRU), and in contact with the Montenegrin anti-NATO opposition. In the immediate aftermath of these revelations, Nikolai Patrushev, the Secretary of the Russian Security Council and former director of the Federal Security Service, visited Belgrade to hold urgent talks with Vučić, who was also alleged to have been at risk of assassination (Borger, 2016).</p>
          <p>
      The tensions ultimately benefited the Demokratska Partija Socijalista Crne Gore (DPS—Democratic Party of Socialists of Montenegro), the successor party to the local communists, which had held power since the 1990s under Đukanović’s leadership. The DPS denounced its opponents as instruments of Russia. While many of the DPS Government’s critics were motivated by their hostility towards NATO, others took issue with the pervasive corruption and state capture in the Balkan republic. Nevertheless, the Government’s narrative prevailed. Opposition leaders Andrija Mandić and Milan Knežević were charged over the alleged coup attempt of October 2016 and placed on trial (RFE/RL, 2017). In May 2019 a Montenegrin court found 13 defendants guilty of plotting a coup, including Mandić and Knežević, as well as, 
      <i>in absentia</i>
      , two Russian military intelligence agents, and imposed a combined sentence of nearly 70 years in prison. Meanwhile, Montenegro’s case for its NATO membership had received a boost (it joined the Alliance in June 2017), at a time when a new US Administration was debating the merits of the USA’s foreign entanglements. After the August 2020 elections, the shift of power from the DPS to a cabinet dominated by members nominated by the Russian-friendly Za Budućnost Crne Gore (For the Future of Montenegro) did not undermine the country’s pro-Western orientation. The election of Jakov Milatović as President of Montenegro in April 2023, defeating Đukanović and ending his decades-long dominance of Montenegrin politics, did not lead to a shift in Montenegro’s position on NATO or desire to join the EU.
    </p>
          <p>Another way in which Russia has affected security perceptions is by interfering in outstanding disputes throughout the former Yugoslavia. The Russian strategy suffered a setback in 2010 when Serbia took the decision to shift towards the EU as a mediator in negotiations with Kosovo (Economides and Ker-Lindsay, 2015). This happened after the International Court of Justice (ICJ) issued an advisory opinion ruling in July 2010 that Kosovo’s 2008 unilateral declaration of independence had not violated international law. The ICJ case resulted from a joint Serbian-Russian initiative, which, ultimately, proved counter-productive. However, Russia is in a position to take advantage of the recurrent crises between Serbia and Kosovo, despite the `normalization’ talks overseen by the EU since 2013. In January 2017 Kosovo President Hashim Thaçi accused Serbia of plotting `a Crimean scenario’ in Serb-majority municipalities in the north of the territory (Bytyci, 2017). Russian activism and connections to ethnic Serb leaders were cited as a reason for contested plans by the Kosovo Government to transform the Kosovo Security Force into an army. Such a move would certainly precipitate a further dispute with Serbia and undermine the EU’s efforts at reaching a settlement. However, Russia offered qualified support to proposals for a resolution of the Kosovo issue through territorial swaps, which was considered by Presidents Thaçi and Vučić in August 2018. Preceding his visit to Belgrade in January 2019, for instance, Putin hinted that he could favour the plan, as it was proposed from within the region rather than dictated by outside powers. However, he condemned moves by Kosovo to form its own military (Filipović, Savić and Arkhipov, 2019). Russia firmly took Serbia’s side as the situation in Serb-majority northern Kosovo escalated in late 2022. In late September the Russian ambassador to Serbia, Aleksandr Botsan-Kharchenko, inspected a Serbian military base near the border with Kosovo. Serbia repeatedly voted with the West in the UN General Assembly, condemning the Russian aggression against Ukraine, but failed to join the Western sanctions imposed against Russia (Bechev, 2023).</p>
          <p>Russia’s role in Bosnia and Herzegovina has also raised concerns. In September 2016 the Republika Srpska authorities organized a referendum that resulted in a vote in favour of celebrating 9 January as a `national holiday’, the Day of Republika Srpska, in defiance of both the West and the state Constitutional Court. On that day in 2017 (and in subsequent years) a military parade was staged in the entity’s capital, Banja Luka, evoking memories of the 1990s war (Mujanović, 2016). Throughout these episodes Russia strongly supported Dodik, blocking efforts to censure him at the Peace Implementation Council’s Steering Board. Dodik, for his part, used every opportunity to demonstrate close personal ties with President Putin, visiting Moscow shortly before the referendum. He also co-operated with Russian nationalist conservatives such as oligarch Konstantin Malofeyev, who was one of many Russian figures subject to Western sanctions owing to his alleged sponsorship of the separatists engaged in conflict in Ukraine’s eastern Donbas region from March 2014 (Grozev, 2017). Although Russia probably restrained Dodik from holding an independence referendum, there were concerns that it was fully backing his efforts at arming and militarizing Republika Srpska’s police force (Mironova and Zawadewicz, 2018). Russia has built additional leverage by improving ties with Bosnian Croat leader Dragan Čović. It, furthermore, unsuccessfully sought to block the appointment of a new High Representative of the International Community in Bosnia and Herzegovina, when Germany nominated Christian Schmidt for the post (Karčić, 2021). Russia played a role in the 2022 elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with Dodik travelling to Moscow to receive Putin’s endorsement before he secured re-election as President of Republika Srpska. Dodik has also blocked Bosnia and Herzegovina’s alignment with the EU sanctions imposed against Russia following the invasion of Ukraine. </p>
          <p>Russia became involved in the acute crisis in the former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia (now North Macedonia) between February 2015 and May 2017. The Russian Government denounced the mass protests that erupted in the capital, Skopje, galvanized by revelations of elite corruption and abuse of power by the centre-right Government of Nikola Gruevski, in another incidence of a Western-backed revolution against the legitimate authorities, and accused the West of conspiring to destabilize the Balkans and push it into the abyss of ethnic conflict. It echoed Gruevski’s arguments that the EU and the USA were colluding with or providing cover for radicalized Albanians, whose demands for greater cultural and linguistic rights were laying the foundations for partition and disintegration of the state. Russian Minister of Foreign Affairs Sergei Lavrov accused Albania and Bulgaria of attempting to divide the territory of North Macedonia, referring to claims broadcast by the Russian government-controlled television network RT (EurActiv, 2015).</p>
          <p>Russian interference in Bosnia and Herzegovina, North Macedonia and Montenegro created an impression of the West as weak and of Russian influence as being in the ascendant. The reality was more nuanced, however. The deadlock in North Macedonia was resolved in May 2017, following mediation from both the EU and the USA. Following inconclusive legislative elections at the end of 2016, the pro-Western opposition succeeded in forming a new Government, after securing the participation of the main ethnic Albanian party, the Bashkimi Demokratik për Integrim (Democratic Union for Integration). In June 2018 several months of negotiations with Greece led to the signature of the so-called Prespa agreement, resolving the longstanding name dispute. As Greece withdrew its objections to North Macedonia’s admission to NATO, Russia saw its local interests threatened. Russian proxies were reportedly active in stoking opposition against the deal on both sides of the Greek-Macedonian border. The authorities in Skopje, for instance, blamed a Russian-Greek tycoon based in the Greek city of Thessaloniki for funding nationalist groups on both sides of the border. In an unprecedented move, Greece expelled two Russian diplomats in mid-2018 and denied entry to two others (Bechev, 2018; Stronski and Himes, 2019). With the implementation of the Prespa agreement completed in early 2019, however, North Macedonia was able to sign a NATO accession protocol (Samorukov, 2019) in February.</p>
          <p>Russia has been a significant factor in the security calculations of Black Sea countries Bulgaria and Romania. The full militarization of Crimea made them vulnerable, notably to the cruise missiles with which Russia equipped the new naval ships and submarines in the process of being deployed in the peninsula. Just as in the Baltic, Russian jets have routinely flown on the edges of the national airspace, straining their air defences (Gou and Manea, 2015). As a response, both Romania and Bulgaria subscribed to the NATO strategy of containment—or `enhanced forward presence’—stated at summits in Newport, Wales, UK (2014) and Warsaw, Poland (2016). However, while Romania adopted a hawkish stance, e.g. by pressing hard for a NATO naval presence in the Black Sea, Bulgaria sought to avoid direct confrontation with Russia. Romania, which hosts a multinational framework brigade (as a deterrent to a potential Russian attack) and elements of the Alliance’s Ballistic Missile Defence, has made much greater progress in modernizing its armed forces and meeting the NATO target for defence spending, equivalent to 2% of gross domestic product (GDP—Bugajski and Doran, 2016). Bulgaria lagged behind on both counts. For instance, its air force was composed of ageing MiG-29s, largely serviced by a contractor in Russia. That alone increased Russian leverage in a critical area. Modernization was delayed by political disagreement over the choice of supplier, with the US-based Lockheed Martin (the manufacturer of the F-16 fighter jet) winning over Sweden’s SAAB (maker of the Grippen fighter jet) in 2018. Moreover, both countries were exposed to cyber attacks believed to be linked to Russia. Citing intelligence, Bulgarian President Rosen Plevneliev accused Russia, for example, of responsibility for the shutdown of the Central Electoral Commission’s website at the time of Bulgaria’s local elections and national referendum in October 2015 (Corera, 2016). Bulgaria was deeply divided over the supply of military assistance to Ukraine, after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. Although the Bulgarian Government had delivered ammunition through Poland and Romania, it was only in November that the country’s parliament voted in favour of sending aid. This happened notwithstanding the protests of President Rumen Radev, who from the start advocated that Bulgaria should stay out of the conflict. Yet, because of the war, both Romania and Bulgaria welcomed NATO deployments as a deterrent against Russian aggression, and accelerated the modernization of their armed forces as well as increased defence spending. </p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>The Economy</heading>
          <p>The fact that the EU by far exceeds Russia in terms of trade, investment and financial transfers to South-Eastern Europe (foreign direct investment—FDI, remittances, and credit by Western European institutions dominating the local banking sector through their subsidiaries) does not make Russia irrelevant. As a 2016 report by the US-based Center for Strategic and International Studies observes, its economic presence has been rather large—due to FDI, in some cases channelled through EU members such as the Netherlands, Austria and Cyprus. According to the report, Russia’s share had reached 22% of GDP in Bulgaria and around 14% in Serbia. Furthermore, `Russian companies in [Central and Eastern Europe] have tended to be concentrated in a few strategic economic sectors, such as energy and fuel processing and trading, whereas EU countries have a more diversified investment portfolio that spans different manufacturing subsectors’ (Conley et al., 2016). Similarly, the Center for the Study of Democracy (2018b) found that Russian companies accounted for between 6.5% and 10% of total turnover in the six Western Balkan states.</p>
          <p>After sectors such as banking, mining and real estate, energy occupies an important place. Major Russian energy companies such as Gazprom, Gazprom Neft and Lukoil have dominated the oil and gas markets in the region. Their role grew exponentially in the 2000s. In 2008, for instance, Serbia decided to sell a controlling stake in its national oil company, Naftna Industrija Srbije (NIS), to Gazprom Neft, the oil branch of Russian state-controlled corporation Gazprom (Simonov, 2009). The privatization agreement drew criticism from economic experts at the time, but was based on a political rationale. It was to seal the partnership between Russia and Serbia in resisting Kosovo’s independence and, more importantly, in working jointly on the proposed South Stream pipeline, which was to transport Russian natural gas to southern Europe. Even though the South Stream project was abandoned and the alliance with Russia did little to help Serbia in Kosovo, NIS tied the Serbian economy to Russia.</p>
          <p>Another significant force in local markets has been Lukoil, Russia’s second largest oil company. In Serbia, it privatized large retailer Beopetrol in 2003, a deal intended to reinforce political ties between the two countries. In 1999 Lukoil became the owner of Bulgaria’s sole refinery near Burgas, which is also the largest in the region (excluding Greece). The largest company in Bulgaria (as NIS is in Serbia), Lukoil Neftochim profited from a virtual monopoly over the Bulgarian wholesale and retail market of petrol and especially diesel (Maltby, 2015; Sorensen, 2016). Its long-serving head, Valentin Zlatev, has been among the most prominent business personalities in Bulgaria and was referred to in a US embassy cable as `a vastly influential kingmaker and behind-the-scenes power broker’ (Wikileaks, 2006). In contrast to government-controlled Gazprom, Lukoil is nominally a private company, driven by business interests rather than geopolitics. Ultimately, however, it is also dependent on the Russian Government and therefore can be easily transformed into a foreign policy instrument if need be.</p>
          <p>Lacking access to alternative supplies of natural gas and with limited storage capacity, South-Eastern European countries such as Bulgaria, Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina suffered immensely during two suspensions in Russian gas deliveries in 2006 and 2009, respectively (Kovačević, 2009). Those events demonstrated, among other things, energy dependence on Russia. At the same time, it is important to note that local countries with larger economies, such as Greece, Romania, Serbia or Bulgaria, tend to consume relatively limited volumes of gas—and mainly for heating. Other countries such as Montenegro, Kosovo and Albania use no natural gas at all. That is in clear contrast with both Central and Western Europe where the rates of gasification are relatively high, as well as with the post-Soviet countries. A larger consumer, such as Croatia, where households do have access to gas, has indigenous production and the infrastructure connections enabling it to import gas from suppliers other than Gazprom (Oxford Analytica, 2015). The corollary is that gas has not necessarily been an instrument of coercion wielded by Russia, although it is also the case that Gazprom traditionally has been in a powerful position to dictate commercial terms to local governments and national energy companies (Henderson and Pirani, 2014).</p>
          <p>Oil and natural gas served as an inducement for Russia in co-opting South-Eastern European states. All governments without exception, from Greece to Bulgaria, Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, agreed to participate in the South Stream pipeline project during 2008-12, in the hope of generating investment and deriving revenue from transit fees for the gas flowing from Russia to customers in Western Europe. In Serbia’s case, the authorities were prepared to sell its principal asset NIS and acquiesce to obtaining a 49% stake, rather than a majority share, in the section of the pipeline traversing the country. Virtually all the countries of the region have entertained ambitions of transforming into `an energy hub’ owing to Russian gas, as well as gas from the Caspian and the Middle East flowing into the region. After South Stream was cancelled by Putin in December 2014, Serbia, Greece, Bulgaria, North Macedonia and others expressed interest in being included in the replacement gas pipeline project, TurkStream, linking Russia and Türkiye, which was officially opened in January 2020.</p>
          <p>However, natural gas has increasingly been an area where Russia has encountered obstacles to growth. In order to build infrastructure on the territory of EU members in the Balkans, Gazprom was obliged to abide by the so-called Third Energy Package, which required that its competitors be able to transport gas using the same pipelines. The EU pressed for the interconnection of national grids, which would support competition. The same policy objective was central to the EU’s Energy Union, a principal initiative of the European Commission from 2014. The interconnection projects, together with liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminals in Croatia (the island of Krk, inaugurated in 2021) and northern Greece (at Alexandroupolis, due to come online in late 2023), are bringing the region closer to diversifying supplies. LNG and the advent of Caspian gas through the Trans-Adriatic Pipeline (TAP), which came online in 2020, have been reducing Gazprom’s share in local markets. The EU also put Gazprom under pressure with lengthy anti-trust investigations, which revealed practices by the Russian gas monopoly across Central and Eastern Europe that were in breach of EU anti-trust regulations, notably, in the case of Bulgaria, by linking support for South Stream to a price discount on the long-term agreement under which it purchased Russian gas. Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 and the consequent cutting off of Russian gas supplies to Poland and Bulgaria in late April 2022 (and the later cessation of supplies to some other EU member states) represented a turn away from Russia. By October one-third of Bulgaria’s gas was supplied by Azerbaijan, via Türkiye and Greece. Bulgaria also secured a gas deal with Türkiye, allowing it access to its neighbour’s LNG terminals. </p>
          <p>The trend towards marketization of the gas trade is not bringing Russia’s influence to a speedy end everywhere, however. As long as public energy companies in the Balkans are mismanaged and turned into a political fiefdoms, there is always scope for Russian business enterprises (acting independently or in co-ordination with the Russian authorities) to insert themselves in local corruption schemes. Srbijagas, the national gas company, has long been a fiefdom of the Socijalistička Partija Srbije (Socialist Party of Serbia), which has been a coalition partner of President Vučić’s Srpska Napredna Stranka (Serbian Progressive Party). As elsewhere in Eastern Europe, gas sales to Serbia are carried out through opaque intermediate business entities, raising suspicions of illicit payments and bribery. In Bosnia and Herzegovina’s Republika Srpska, the sale of the only local refinery to a Russian bidder, Zarubezhneft, without a tender in 2007 was also a matter of controversy. It was overseen personally by Dodik (at that time the Republika Srpska Prime Minister). Yet another example occurred in Bulgaria where, in late 2013, Russian company Stroytransgaz, owned by President Putin’s personal associate, Gennadii Timchenko, secured the contract to build the country’s section of South Stream without a competitive tender (Georgiev et al., 2016). A number of politically connected Bulgarian companies were added to the consortium, which greatly inflated the cost of the project. South Stream Bulgaria was a state capture venture, which was terminated only when the European Commission froze vital funds to the Bulgarian Government over the violation of competition rules on tendering.</p>
          <p>TurkStream’s extension into Bulgaria and Serbia opened a new chapter in the saga. Putin’s triumphant visit to Belgrade in January 2019 gave a boost to the project, as did a two-day trip by the Russian Prime Minister, Dmitrii Medvedev, to the Bulgarian capital Sofia in March. In parallel, Bulgartransgaz, the energy grid operator in Bulgaria, moved forward with plans to build new transit capacity, to enable Gazprom to pump large volumes of gas from the Turkish border and onwards to Serbia. Critics pointed out that the Bulgarian Government was doing Russia’s bidding, in this case by procuring €1,400m. in investment without accounting for the returns from the project. Putin was adamant that there could be no guarantee about the amount of gas to be shipped, unless the EU offered (unspecified) guarantees with regard to Russian deliveries (Bechev, 2019). TurkStream was inaugurated in early January 2020 by Putin and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, with Bulgarian Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and Serbian President Vučić in attendance. After some delays, the extension through Bulgaria and Serbia became operational in January 2021, with plans for a further extension to Bosnia’s Republika Srpska. It served Hungary too, under a revised contract with Gazprom. Flows were not interrupted even when, in 2022, Russia stopped supplying Bulgaria (which refused to settle bills in Russian roubles). Meanwhile, in late 2021 Gazprom signed a six-month contract with Srbijagas, helping the Government keep prices low prior to elections in April 2022, and a new, three-year agreement with Gazprom was negotiated in May. However, at mid-2023 Serbia was completing a gas interconnector with Bulgaria, which should allow it to receive gas from alternative sources, including Azerbaijan, as well as LNG from the future Alexandroupolis terminal in northern Greece.</p>
          <p>Russian capital has often entered the region through third countries, some of them EU members. As stated by an in-depth study of Russia’s presence in North Macedonia’s economy, `... the Russian mining company Solway ... operates a lead, zinc, and copper mine in Macedonia, but is officially registered in Switzerland. Another is a large Russian power plant operator, TKG, which owns a joint-venture, the TE-TO Combined Cycle Heat and Power Plant near Skopje, through a Cypriot offshore intermediary’ (Center for the Study of Democracy, 2018a). European integration has therefore been as much of a challenge to Russian business and official foreign policy as an opportunity.</p>
          <p>Russian money has penetrated other sectors beyond energy, with the approval of local politicians. In 2005 Montenegro sold the Aluminium Plant Podgorica (KAP), the largest enterprise in the country, to a Russian oligarch, Oleg Deripaska, through a Cypriot offshore intermediary. The deal was personally conducted by then President Đukanović. Although he and Deripaska subsequently came into conflict and an ongoing complicated legal dispute for control of KAP ensued, this case illustrates the intimate links between Russian business and Balkan political elites (Reuters, 2013). The real estate sector, which is by definition a soft target for money laundering activities in jurisdictions where the rule of law is flawed, has been another transmission belt of corruption—and by extension of political influence. With the imposition of stringent Western sanctions following Russia’s 2022 invasion of Ukraine, Serbia kept its borders open to citizens of the Russian Federation as well as to flights from Moscow and other Russian cities. Over 100,000 Russians found refuge in the country, primarily in Belgrade and the city of Novi Sad. Alongside Istanbul (Türkiye) and Dubai (the United Arab Emirates), Belgrade seeks to become a hub for Russian money and possibly a gateway to the West.</p>
          <p>As elsewhere in Europe, Russian funds could make or break political careers. In Croatia, for instance, Tomislav Karamarko, the leader of the principal centre-right party, the Hrvatska Demokratska Zajednica (Croatian Democratic Union), tendered his resignation in June 2016, after a scandal concerning a donation from an opaque Russian foundation (Marini, 2016). The affair served to reveal the close contacts between Russia and political and business elites in the post-Yugoslav state, which, unlike Serbia, rarely comes under scrutiny when Russia’s influence is discussed. Agrokor, Croatia’s largest company, which accounted for some 16% of national GDP, owed €1,300m. to Russian lenders Sberbank and VTB Bank (operating through their subsidiaries in Austria). The company was on the verge of bankruptcy from early 2017, giving Russia a strong advantage (Samorukov, 2017). Following the Russian invasion of Ukraine in 2022, the Russian banks announced their withdrawal from Fortenova (Agrokor’s successor).</p>
          <p>Russia defended the interests of its companies in the region. For instance, it pressed the Bulgarian Government to fulfil its obligations to Rosatom’s subsidiary, Atomstroyexport, under a contract to build a nuclear power station at the northern town of Belene. Bulgaria withdrew from the agreement in early 2012, owing to financial constraints and the uncertain market prospects of the venture. Efforts to restart the project failed to progress because of a lack of foreign investment. Despite resistance from within the country, Bulgaria is likely to transfer from Rosatom to Western suppliers of nuclear fuel—the US company Westinghouse and France’s Framatome—for its existing power plant at Kozloduy. However, Russia has been reluctant to take up a more ambitious role. In 2013 it refused to bail out Cyprus during the country’s banking crisis, which also affected a great number of Russian depositors. Likewise, President Putin failed to respond positively to the overtures of Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras in April 2015 for the extension of Russian aid to Greece in order to avoid both bankruptcy and the heavy conditions that Germany and its allies in the eurozone attached to a new Greek rescue package (Bechev, 2017). Ultimately, Russia avoided taking long-term risks in South-Eastern Europe, arguing that it was for the EU to support the struggling economies of the region.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Russia’s Influence on Societies and Domestic Politics</heading>
          <p>`Soft power’, that is the ability to appeal and attract, constitutes yet another aspect of Russian influence. Russia and President Putin are hugely popular in societies with Orthodox Christian majorities—Serbia and Republika Srpska, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Bulgaria and Greece. That is a fact registered by numerous sociological surveys over the years. Russia cultivates the image of a historic ally and protector of its Balkan brethren against the twin perils of the arrogant West and radical Islam.</p>
          <p>Russian soft power has been a function of outstanding grudges against the West. Russia’s policies tap into indigenous resentments dating back to the Yugoslav wars and the early post-communist transition of the 1990s and, in the case of Greece, into the experiences of its civil war (1946-49) and military dictatorship (1967-74). The EU has also become a target, particularly in more recent years. It is faulted for the economic dislocation experienced in the region since the global financial crisis, for the imposition of liberal values (especially on sensitive matters such as the rights of ethnic and sexual minorities), as well as for the influx of refugees. Russia, in contrast, casts itself as a champion of traditionalism and a bulwark against the encroachment by the West of sacrosanct norms of national sovereignty.</p>
          <p>Russia has gained popularity owing to expectations, often misplaced, of investment and trade benefits. During the 2000s infrastructure schemes such as the South Stream project generated perceptions that billions of euros would be channelled into the region by Russian energy companies. Successive governments in Serbia, as well as the Republika Srpska leadership, have pressed (with limited success) for loans from Russia. Serbian agricultural exports to Russia have been on the rise for several years, too (possibly due to EU producers using Serbia as a means of circumventing Russian counter-sanctions against Western states). In Bulgaria, the effect of EU sanctions against Russia became a vigorously debated issue. Various commentators decried their negative consequences on the country’s economy, despite the fact that Russia was not previously a significant export partner. In parallel, the nuclear power plant at Belene was presented as a short cut to `reindustrialization’, reversing the decline of heavy industries in Bulgaria after the end of communism.</p>
          <p>
      Such favourable views facilitated Russia’s `strategic communications’. The Russian Government’s stance on the conflict in Ukraine from 2014, military intervention in the Syrian Arab Republic, the EU’s refugee crisis, etc. have resonated with audiences across the Balkans. There are some striking examples. An opinion survey of 2014, funded by the European Commission, showed that Serbian citizens perceived Russia as a leading donor, several points ahead of the EU (TNS Medium Gallup, 2014). The reality could not be more different. Together, the EU and its member states had spent more than €3,500m. in Serbia alone since 2000. Russia’s contribution was hardly one-10th of the total—mostly loans rather than grants—and lagged behind that of the USA and even Japan. Surveys looking specifically at foreign policy produce similar findings. A poll by 
      <i>New Serbian Political Thought</i>
       (
      <i>Nova Srpska Politička Misao</i>
      ), a conservative pro-Russian journal, found in October 2013 that 67.5% of Serbians supported an alliance with Russia, compared with 53.7% in favour of EU membership. With the COVID-19 pandemic Serbia’s attention shifted to China, a trend that was also reflected in opinion polls, crediting it as a major provider of financial assistance and investment. From early 2020 President Vučić welcomed medical aid from China, along with stocks of the Chinese Sinopharm vaccine as well as Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine, and the Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccines. These supplies allowed Serbia to engage in `vaccine diplomacy’, by donating doses to neighbouring countries from the former Yugoslavia and making it possible for their citizens to be inoculated against COVID-19 in Serbia (Vuksanović, 2021).
    </p>
          <p>Those attitudes have been reproduced during the war in Ukraine. A poll carried out in mid-2022 by research organization New Third Way found that 59% of Serbian citizens held the West responsible for the conflict, while 23% of respondents blamed Russia and 18% believed that Russia and the Western powers shared responsibility. According to another survey, conducted in mid-2022 by the Center for Research, Transparency and Accountability, a human rights organization, 72% of Serbians believed that Russia was forced to start the war because of NATO enlargement (Bechev, 2023). The pro-Russian message was spread by the Serbian government-aligned media, but also by RT, which opened a Serbian-language subsidiary in November. </p>
          <p>In Bulgaria and Greece, too, positive views of Russia have often prevailed. A survey from March 2015 found that 61% of citizens in Bulgaria held a positive view of Russia and 30% a negative view. At the same time, nearly two-thirds of respondents stated that they would vote in favour of EU and NATO membership in a referendum, and only one-third for alignment with Russia and other post-Soviet states (Alpha Research, 2015). The situation in Greece was somewhat comparable. According to a poll from October 2015, citizens viewed the EU as their main ally, with Russia much lower down the list (44%, compared with 12%). However, when asked about individual countries, respondents ranked Russia second in popularity after France, and well ahead of Germany and the USA. Overall, 58% of respondents were favourable towards Russia and 34% unfavourable (Györi et al., 2015). The large-scale war in Ukraine in 2022 changed the picture to some degree, however. In Bulgaria, for instance, Putin’s popularity ratings dropped to around 30%. Greeks had a change of heart too, particularly after Russian forces shelled ethnic Greek villages in the vicinity of the Ukrainian city of Mariupol in March 2022.</p>
          <p>In countries such as Serbia, the popularity of Russia taps into grudges against the West. Engagement with and appreciation of Russian culture, society and domestic institutions are secondary (Bondarev, 2016). Sociological data from the European Commission regarding Serbia indicate that young people are supportive of an alliance with Russia, but are much more likely to travel, work or study in Western Europe. Nevertheless, as indicated above, a majority in Serbia sided with Russia in relation to its invasion of Ukraine in 2022, buying into the official Russian narrative that it was acting in self-defence against the encroaching West. Russia’s alignment with Serbian, and to a lesser extent Macedonian, nationalism makes it unpopular among Muslim-majority communities, including Bosnian Muslims (Bosniaks) and Kosovar Albanians. Montenegro is a special case because the attitude to Russia correlates with the pro- and anti-NATO cleavage, as well as polarized views about the identity of Montenegrins—as an extension of the greater Serb nation or a historically separate ethnic community (Džankić, 2014).</p>
          <p>What matters is whether Russia is able to convert its popularity into political leverage. It has at its disposal a vast network of allies that include political parties, the Serbian Orthodox Church, civic groups, media, prominent public figures and opinion makers. Yedinaya Rossiya (YeR—United Russia), the ruling party in Russia, has co-operation arrangements with a number of organizations across the former Yugoslavia. Attending YeR’s congress in 2016, a group of nationalist and ultraconservative groups, such as the Demokratska Stranka Srbije (DSS—Democratic Party of Serbia), the Srpski Pokret Dveri (Serbian Movement Doors), Montenegro’s Nova Srpska Demokratija (New Serbian Democracy), the Demokratska Narodna Partija (Democratic People’s Party), the Socijalistička Narodna Partija (Socialist People’s Party) and Republika Srpska’s Savez Nezavisnih Socijaldemokrata (Alliance of Independent Social Democrats), led by Dodik, adopted a joint declaration opposing NATO’s expansion. They chose to do this on 28 June, St Vitus’s Day (Vidovdan), the date of the 1389 Battle of Kosovo and the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand in Sarajevo in 1914.</p>
          <p>Those allies can be easily stirred into action. In early 2016 Serbia experienced a series of anti-NATO demonstrations demanding a referendum on membership. The organizers were members of an opaque civic group called Zavetnici (Oathkeepers), but were also endorsed by political associations such as the extreme nationalist Srpska Radikalna Stranka (Serbian Radical Party), led by Vojislav Šešelj, and the DSS. The rallies represented an indirect attack against (then) Prime Minister Vučić in advance of a general election. Vučić’s position was, and still is, that Serbia had settled the issue once and for all with a parliamentary declaration of neutrality in 2007. Although Vučić’s Government won a resolute victory and a new term in power, the message was that Russia was in a position to enter Serbian politics through the `back door’ and pressure the Government. However, in 2022-23 members of a radical right-wing Serbian organization bearing insignia linking them to the Wagner Group (a Russian private military company which had deployed forces in Ukraine and in other conflicts) appeared in northern Kosovo, as well as in Belgrade. Serbian nationalists denounced Vučić for engaging in EU-led talks with Kosovo’s Prime Minister, Albin Kurti. Meanwhile, Vučić issued a public rebuke to Russia over efforts by Wagner to recruit Serbs to fight in Ukraine. Similarly, pro-Russian organizations were at the forefront of resistance to the Prespa agreement signed between North Macedonia and Greece. They included the newly formed Obedineta Makedonija (United Macedonia), which claimed affiliation with Russia’s YeR.</p>
          <p>To understand why Russia has become more prominent, one needs to take into account the broader trends in the region. The Balkans have experienced the rise of a new generation of demagogues and nationalists who differ from those presiding over Yugoslavia’s violent dissolution in the 1990s (BiEPAG, 2017). Present-day leaders gladly wage symbolic violence to rally their constituencies, but they lack the financial and military resources to launch and sustain full-scale wars. The political costs of using military force are high (e.g. being ostracized by the West), and the pay-off is uncertain. Overall, hate speech is a less risky strategy than conflict. That involves scapegoating Western countries and organizations, which is a daily occurrence in Serbian tabloid newspapers, for instance, especially as the country marked the 20th anniversary of the Kosovo intervention. The presence of NATO and the EU in the region is also a deterring factor, even if the West’s soft power might be in relative decline. Yet, Balkan leaders have an interest in keeping tensions high, as that translates into electoral gains domestically, as well as international attention. Manipulating nationalist grudges and passions also shifts attention away from more mundane concerns such as corruption, the misuse of office and state capture.</p>
          <p>This environment provides endless opportunities for Russia to assert itself. Societies are receptive to nationalist messages and vulnerable to `fake news’ and disinformation, often originating from the elites themselves (Lessenski, 2018). For their part, Balkan power-holders preferred to accommodate rather than resist Russia. Serbia’s President Vučić provides the best example. Despite coming under pressure from Russia’s radical proxies, he has attempted to remain on good terms with both Russia and the EU, and to extract strategic and commercial benefits from both parties. To him, Serbia’s interests lie in co-operating with both the West and the East, just like socialist Yugoslavia in the era of Josip Broz (Tito). That also seems to be in accordance with the mainstream view in Serbian society. The same stance prevailed in Montenegro until the 2014 crisis in Ukraine. Thereafter, government strategy moved in the opposite direction, using the threat of Russia to deflect legitimate criticism about corruption and state capture. In North Macedonia, the centre-right Vnatrešno-Makedonska Revolucionerna Organizacija-Demokratska Partija za Makedonsko Nacionalno Edinstvo (Internal Macedonian Revolu­tionary Organization-Democratic Party for Macedonian National Unity), the ruling party during 2006-17, shifted from a staunchly pro-EU and -NATO position to a Russia-friendly one, supporting leaders such as Hungary’s Viktor Orbán and then US President Donald Trump. In any event, Balkan elites had been taking advantage of the Russian threat domestically and internationally, just as Russia made use of the region in its combat with the West, which shows no sign of abating.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Conclusion</heading>
          <p>Russian influence in South-Eastern Europe is usually treated as a matter of supply. Russia, according to this version, has been seeking to challenge and roll back the Western presence established in the region since the 1990s. President Putin has sought to repay the USA and Europe for humiliation suffered during the NATO-led war against Serbia over Kosovo in 1999. Russia has rallied Slavs and/or Orthodox Christians in the Balkans and harnessed historic and cultural links to stake a longstanding claim on the region.</p>
          <p>Despite the focus on Russia’s legacy in the Balkans, whether it is from the 1990s, the Cold War or even the times of the Tsarist Empire, one should note that, as a rule, Russia has acted in tandem with local players—individual leaders, parties and business interests. They have been pursuing their own political and economic agendas, which may or may not overlap with those of Russia. As a rule, radical forces, arguing for a complete break with the West and full alignment with Russia, have marginal impact. In other words, South-Eastern Europe is likely to remain within the orbit of the EU and NATO. Despite the alarm in recent years about Western withdrawal from the region and the arrival of new powers eager to fill the gap, empirical evidence suggests that Europe and the USA retain greater influence and continue to bear a commitment to stability. The deployment of extra NATO troops to Bulgaria and Romania as well as the reinforcements sent to the EU missions in Bosnia and Kosovo, EUFOR Althea and EULEX, in response to the war in Ukraine in 2022 underscore that fact. However, the back door that Russia is making use of will not close any time soon.</p>
          <p>The war in Ukraine provides a vivid illustration of the complexity of the dynamics. In early 2022 Serbia refused to side with the West and implement sanctions, yet it backed UN General Assembly resolutions condemning Russia’s aggression, and even voted in favour of expelling Russia from the UN Human Rights Council. Far-right parties trying to capitalize on that move and challenge Vučić failed to register significant gains in the 3 April elections. The President cast himself as a force for peace and stability, rather than as a Russian ally. Meanwhile, Serbia embraced plans for the diversification of gas supplies, too. Bosnia’s Milorad Dodik, likewise, assured the European Parliament in March that he did not intend to call a referendum on independence for Republika Srpska. Overall, Balkan leaders and governments have tried to adapt to the crisis. At the same time, war gave impetus to nationalists and populists such as the Vazrazhdane (Revival) party in Bulgaria, which staunchly opposed providing any assistance to Ukraine, or Levica (The Left) in North Macedonia, which repeated the official Russian narrative of the war as a just fight against Ukrainian `Nazis’ and their Western patrons. While fighting continues in Ukraine it will continue to be exploited by domestic political entrepreneurs in the Balkans.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <bibl-section id="CAS.ESSAY.1.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="BIBL-REF" usage="casee">
          <heading>Bibliography</heading>
          <bibl-list>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">Alpha Research. `Bãlgarskata vãnshna politika, konfliktãt Rusiya-Ukrajna i natsionalnata ni sigurnost’ (`Bulgarian Foreign Policy, the Ukraine-Russia Conflict and National Security’). Sofia, March 2015.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">Balkan Insight. `Serbian Officials Divided on Foreign Policy “Balancing Act”’. 24 Oct. 2017. </bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">BBC News. `Putin Warns West on Balkans as Serbia Provides Lavish Welcome’. 17 Jan. 2019, available at: www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-46892363.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">
        Bechev, D. 
        <i>Russia’s Influence in Bulgaria</i>
        . Report, Brussels, New Direction: Foundation for European Reform, 2015.
      </bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
                    <i>Rival Power: Russia in Southeast Europe</i>
        . New Haven, CT, Yale University Press, 2017. 
      </bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">`Why did Greece turn against Russia’. Black Sea Strategy Papers, Foreign Policy Research Institute, Nov. 2018, available at: www.fpri.org/article/2018/11/why-did-greece-turn-against-russia.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
        `Russia’s Pipe Dreams are Europe’s Nightmares’, 
        <i>Foreign Policy</i>
        , 12 March 2019, available at: foreignpolicy.com/2019/03/12/russia-turkstream-oil-pipeline.
      </bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">`Hedging its Bets: Serbia between Russia and the EU’, Carnegie Europe, January 2023, available at: carnegieeurope.eu/2023/01/19/hedging-its-bets-serbia-between-russia-and-eu-pub-88819.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">BiEPAG (Balkans in Europe Advisory Group). `The Crisis of Democracy in the Western Balkans. Authoritarianism and EU Stabilitocracy’. Policy Paper, March 2017, available at: www.biepag.eu.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">
        Bondarev, N. `Rus će izabrati `ševrolet’ pre nego srpski `punto’: Putinov čovek otkrio tajne srpsko- ruskih odnosa’ (`The Russian would Choose a Chevrolet over a Serbian Fiat Punto: Putin’s Man Reveals the Secrets of Serbian-Russian Relations’). Interview by Branka Mitrović, 
        <i>Newsweek Serbia</i>
        , 19 Jan. 2016.
      </bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">
        Borger, J. `Serbia deports Russians suspected of plotting Montenegro coup’. With additional reporting by A. MacDowall and S. Walker. 
        <i>The Guardian</i>
        , 11 Nov. 2016. 
      </bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">
        Božinovski, I. `Russia to donate MiG-29s, T-72s to Serbia’. 
        <i>IHS Jane's Defence Weekly</i>
        , 22 Dec. 2016.
      </bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">
        Bugajski, J. and Doran, P. 
        <i>Black Sea Rising: Russia’s Strategy in Southeast Europe</i>
        . Report, Center for European Policy Analysis, Washington, DC, Feb. 2016.
      </bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">Bytyci, F. `Serbia wants to annex part of Kosovo using `Crimea model’: president’. Reuters, 16 Jan. 2017, available at: www.reuters.com/article/us-serbia-kosovo-president/serbia-wants-to-annex-part-of-kosovo-using-crimea-model-president-idUSKBN15022Y.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">Center for the Study of Democracy. `Assessing Russia’s Economic Footprint in Macedonia’. Policy Brief 71, Jan. 2018, 2018a, available at: www.csd.bg/artShow.php?id=18116.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">`Assessing Russia’s Economic Footprint in the Western Balkans. Corruption and State Capture Risks’. 2018b, available at: www.csd.bg/artShow.php?id=18131.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">
        Conley, H. et al. 
        <i>Kremlin’s Playbook: Understanding Russian Influence in Central and Eastern Europe</i>
        . Report, CSIS and the Center for the Study of Democracy, Sofia, Oct. 2016.
      </bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">Corera, G. `Bulgaria warns of Russian attempts to divide Europe’. BBC News, 4 Nov. 2016, available at: www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-37867591.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">Djurdjić, M. `US Sees Russia’s `Humanitarian Center’ in Serbia as Spy Outpost’. Voice of America, 15 June 2017, available at: www.voanews.com/a/united-states-sees-russia-humanitarian-center-serbia-spy-outpost/3902402.html.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">
        Džankić, J. `Reconstructing the Meaning of Being “Montenegrin”’. 
        <i>Slavic Review</i>
        , 73 (2), Summer 2014, pp. 347-71.
      </bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">
        Economides, S. and Ker-Lindsay, J. `“Pre-Accession Europeanization”: The Case of Serbia and Kosovo’. 
        <i>Journal of Common Market Studies</i>
        , 53 (5), Sept. 2015, pp. 1027-44.
      </bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">EurActiv. `Bulgaria rejects Russian claim that it wants to dismember Macedonia’. 21 May 2015, available at: www.euractiv.com/section/global-europe/news/bulgaria-rejects-russian-claim-that-it-wants-to-dismember-macedonia.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">Filipović, G., Savić, M. and Arkhipov, I. `Putin Receives Hero’s Welcome as Serbia Seeks Leverage on Kosovo’. Bloomberg, 17 Jan. 2019, available at: www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-01-17/putin-arrives-to-hero-s-welcome-as-serbia-seeks-kosovo-leverage.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">
        Filis, C. `Greece-Russia—Seeking a Firm Orientation’, in Litsas, S., and Tziampiris, A. (Eds.). 
        <i>Foreign Policy Under Austerity: Greece's Return to Normality?</i>
         Basingstoke, Palgrave Macmillan, pp. 227-61, 2017.
      </bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">Georgiev, A., et al. `“Yuzhen potok” i ovladyavaneto na darzhavata [South Stream and State Capture]’. RiskMonitor, Sofia, Nov. 2016. </bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">
        Gou, A. and Manea, O. `The Consequences of the Militarization of Crimea for the Wider Black Sea Region. Studia Politica’. 
        <i>Romanian Political Science Review</i>
        , 15 (1), 2015, pp. 9-20. 
      </bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">
        Grozev, C. `The Kremlin’s Balkan Gambit: Part I’. 
        <i>BellingCat</i>
        , 4 March 2017, available at: www.bellingcat.com/news/uk-and-europe/2017/03/04/kremlins-balkan-gambit-part.
      </bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">
        Györi, L. et al. 
        <i>Natural Allies: The Kremlin Connections of the Greek Far Right</i>
        . Report, Budapest, Political Capital, 2015. 
      </bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">
        Henderson, J. and Pirani, S. 
        <i>The Russian Gas Matrix: How the Markets are Driving Change</i>
        . Oxford, Oxford University Press, 2014. 
      </bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">Karčić, H. `Germany, Russia and the Gambit for Bosnia’, Royal United Services Institute, 15 April 2021, available at: rusi.org/commentary/germany-russia-and-gambit-bosnia.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">
        Konitzer, A. `Serbia between East and West’. 
        <i>Russian History</i>
        , 38 (1), Spring 2011, pp. 103-124. 
      </bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">Kovačević, A. `The Impact of the Russia-Ukraine Gas Crisis in South Eastern Europe’. Oxford Institute for Energy Studies, March 2009</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">Lessenski, M. `Common Sense Wanted: Resilience to “Post-Truth” and its Predictors in the New Media Literacy Index 2018’. Open Society Institute, 2018, available at: osi.bg/downloads/File/2018/MediaLiteracyIndex2018_publishENG.pdf.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">
        Maltby, T. `Between Amity, Enmity and Europeanisation: EU Energy Security Policy and the Example of Bulgaria’s Russian Energy Dependence’. 
        <i>Europe-Asia Studies</i>
        , 67 (5), June 2015, pp. 809-30. 
      </bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">Marini, A. `Russian Money Creeping into Croatia’. EUInside, 14 July 2016, available at: www.euinside.eu/en/analyses/russian-money-creeping-into-croatia.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">
        Mironova, V. and Zawadewicz, B. `Putin is Building a Bosnian Paramilitary Force’. 
        <i>Foreign Policy</i>
        , 8 Aug. 2018, available at: foreignpolicy.com/2018/08/08/putin-is-building-a-bosnian-paramilitary-force.
      </bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">Mujanović, J. `Republika Srpska’s referendum: A prelude to a nationalist landslide in the Bosnian elections, European Politics and Policy Blog’. London School of Economics and Political Science, 26 Sept. 2016, available at: blogs.lse.ac.uk/europpblog/2016/09/26/republika-srpska-referendum.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">
        Orenstein, M. A. and Kelemen, D. `Trojan Horses in EU Foreign Policy’. 
        <i>Journal of Common Market Studies</i>
        , 55 (1), Jan. 2017, pp. 87-102. 
      </bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">
        Oxford Analytica. `Western Balkan states to feel EU Energy Union impact’. 
        <i>Oxford Analytica Daily Brief</i>
        , 10 April 2015.
      </bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">Reljić, D. `The Impact of Russia in Sabina Lange, Zoran Nechev and Florian Trauner Resilience in the Western Balkans’. Report No 36, EU Institute for Security Studies, Aug. 2017, pp. 43-51.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">Reuters. `Deripaska's CEAC sues Montenegro over aluminum plant bankruptcy’. 3 Dec. 2013.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">RFE/RL. `Trial To Resume Against Alleged Russian, Serbian Coup Plotters In Montenegro’. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, 7 Sept. 2017, available at: www.rferl.org/a/montenegro-coup-plot-trial-resumes-russia-nato-djukanovic-mandic-knezevic/28719631.html.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">Samorukov, M. `Croatia: Moscow’s New Ally, or a Brief Fling?’. Commentary, Carnegie Moscow, 27 Oct. 2017, available at: carnegie.ru/commentary/73562.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">`Macedonia Joining NATO is Self-Inflicted Defeat for Moscow’, Commentary, Carnegie Moscow, 10 Feb. 2019, available at: carnegie.ru/commentary/78320.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">
        Simonov, K. `Russian Energy Interests in South-Eastern Europe’. 
        <i>Energy in the Southeast Europe Monitoring Russia Serbia Relations Project Sixth Report</i>
        , Belgrade, ISAC Fund, 2009, pp. 31-41.
      </bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">Sorensen, H. `Exit Lukoil. And what does it mean for Bulgaria?’. Bulgaria Analytica, 20 Dec. 2016, available at: bulgariaanalytica.org/en/2016/12/20. </bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">Stronski, P. and Himes, A. `Russia’s Game in the Balkans’. Carnegie Endowment, Feb. 2019, available at: carnegieendowment.org/2019/02/06/russia-s-game-in-balkans-pub-78235.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">Szpala, M. `Russia and Serbia-Soft Power and Hard Interests’. Commentary, Warsaw, Center for Eastern Studies, 29 Oct. 2014, available at: www.osw.waw.pl/en/publikacje/osw-commentary/2014-10-29/russia-serbia-soft-power-and-hard-interests.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">TASS. `Russia to Supply Seven Mi-35, Three Mi-17 Helicopters to Serbia’, 18 Jan. 2019.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">TNS Medium Gallup. `Public opinion on the EU and European integration’. Feb. 2014, available at: www.europa.rs/upload/Opinion%20poll%20results% 20for% 20press% 20conference% 20FIN% 20ENG.pptx.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">Vuksanović, V, `In the Balkans, Serbia Has Its Own Vaccine Diplomacy’, Center for European Policy Analysis, 16 April 2021, available at: cepa.org/in-the-balkans-serbia-has-its-own-vaccine-diplomacy.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">Wikileaks. `Bulgaria’s Most Influential Politician: Great Hopes, Murky Ties, Sofia’ (Ambassador John Beyerle, Sofia). 9 May 2006, available at: wikileaks.org/plusd/cables/06SOFIA647_a.html.</bibl-entry>
               <bibl-entry type="FULL">
        Wilson, D., Marušić, D. and Bedenbaugh, S. 
        <i>US Strategy in the Balkans</i>
        . Report, Washington, DC, Atlantic Council, Nov. 2017.
      </bibl-entry>
          </bibl-list>
     </bibl-section>
</essay>