<?xml version="1.0"?>
<essay id="CAS.ESSAY.11" id-root="casee" iso="casee" region="NONE" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ESSAY-REF"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>Appendix 2: The Kaliningrad Region</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">General Survey</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">The Kaliningrad Region</alt-heading>
     <p>The Russian exclave of Kaliningrad, located on the Baltic coast and occupying 15,125 sq&#160;km (5,840 sq&#160;miles), the population of which was estimated at 1,029,966 at the census of 2021 (almost one-half of whom lived in regional capital of Kaliningrad itself), had a 700-year history as Königsberg—an important centre and, for a time, capital of the Prussian state. Königsberg was founded as a fortress of the Order of the Teutonic Knights in 1255, during the Northern Crusade against the Prussians. The city subsequently became the capital of the territories conquered by the Order and joined the Hanseatic League, forming extensive trade and cultural links across the Baltic.</p>
     <p>In 1525 the last Grand Master of the Order, Albert of Hohenzollern, converted to Lutheranism, dissolved the Order and transformed the state into the Protestant Duchy of Prussia, which held the lands as a vassal of the Polish crown. In 1618 the Duchy passed to another branch of the Hohenzollern family, the Margraves of Brandenburg. The new Dukes grew steadily in power and influence, exploiting the opportunities granted to them by the Peace of Westphalia that concluded the Thirty Years’ War in 1648. First, Poland abandoned its claims to suzerainty, and in 1701 Frederick (Friedrich) I was crowned as Prussian king in Königsberg.</p>
     <p>As the new kingdom rose to become the dominant German power, and started to grow at the expense of Poland, the city thrived as the commercial and economic centre of East Prussia. Albertina University, founded in 1544, was highly regarded across Europe and was where the philosopher Immanuel Kant, a native and life-long resident of Königsberg, taught and studied. By the 19th century the port was one of the largest in Germany and was the country’s main centre for exports of wood and grain, with commercial contacts that stretched from Russia to the United Kingdom.</p>
     <p>Germany’s defeat in the First World War, in 1918, marked the eclipse of Prussian power, although the city and surrounding region were left relatively unscathed. As a result of the Treaty of Versailles, East Prussia was separated from the rest of Germany by lands given to the reconstituted Polish state. Although it remained a major trading centre, the Königsberg region suffered from the same economic and political tensions as the rest of Weimar Germany, tensions that assisted the Nazis’ subsequent rise to power. As elsewhere under Nazi control or influence, Jews were explicitly targeted, and most Jews remaining in the city once the Second World War had begun were deported and killed.</p>
     <p>The city was largely untouched by the early years of the Second World War, but in August 1944 the British Royal Air Force launched a large-scale aerial bombardment, destroying much of the city, and reducing the castle and cathedral to ruins. In January 1945 the Soviet Red Army invaded East Prussia. As the German forces retreated, thousands of refugees flooded into Königsberg. However, the nearby port of Pillau (now Baltiisk) remained under German control until the end of the war, permitting around 100,000 Germans an escape route westwards. Many more Germans remained in the besieged city, which was largely destroyed by persistent heavy bombardment. Despite being substantially outnumbered, the Nazi troops did not surrender until 10 April 1945.</p>
     <p>Under the terms of the Potsdam Conference of July-August 1945, almost all of the territory that had constituted East Prussia was to be annexed by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR). On 7 April 1946 the northern part of East Prussia was incorporated into the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (Russian Federation), forming an exclave thereof, excluding a strip of territory that was given to the Lithuanian Soviet Socialist Republic, while the southern part was given to Poland. From 1947 the Soviet authorities started to deport the remaining German population, replacing them with Russians. As part of a process of russification, the city and surrounding district (Oblast) were renamed Kaliningrad, after the former Politburo member Mikhail Kalinin.</p>
     <p>Kaliningrad’s strategic importance and status as Russia’s only year-round ice-free Baltic port led to it becoming the headquarters of the Baltic Fleet and home to 200,000 troops. The area was declared a military zone, and effectively became isolated from the outside world. Travel to and from the area was heavily restricted. As part of a policy of removing all remnants of the region’s German history, the ruins of the city’s castle were dynamited and a House of the Soviets constructed on the site. Although Kant, as a former resident of the city, was officially commem­orated, references to his German nationality were eschewed; he was instead described in official texts and schoolbooks as a `citizen of Europe’ and as an intellectual forebear of Karl Marx.</p>
     <p>Following the disintegration of the USSR in 1991, troop numbers were heavily reduced, a measure that had heavy social and economic consequences for the region, including a rapid increase in the crime rate.</p>
     <p>There were sporadic attempts to open up the region’s economy during the 1990s. However, traditional industry remained stagnant and the amber industry (Kaliningrad was reported to hold 90% of the world’s amber reserves) was subject to the influence of organized criminal groups, with some reports suggesting that as much as 80% of amber production was unaccounted for. Leonid Gorbenko, who was elected as Governor in 1996, followed an isolationist course and blocked moves for further autonomy for the region; these policies, along with concerns about the perceived rate of corruption, deterred potential investors and compounded many of the region’s problems.</p>
     <p>However, from the early 2000s, the Russian authorities and the European Union (EU) began to show signs of interest in tackling the area’s problems. Gorbenko was replaced as Governor in 2000 by Adm. Vladimir Yegorov, the former Commander of the Baltic Fleet, who was elected on an anti-corruption platform, and in 2005 by President Vladimir Putin’s nominee Georgii Boos, hitherto a deputy chairman of the lower chamber of the federal legislature, the State Duma, who identified economic growth as a priority. A Free Economic Zone, established in the 1990s, became a Special Economic Zone (SEZ) in 2006, in which local producers were permitted duty free trade with EU member countries. By the mid-2000s major international companies had begun to invest in the region. The Avtodor factory, founded in 1996, manufactures vehicles on behalf of BMW (of Germany) and Kia Motors (of the Republic of Korea), and formerly did so for General Motors (of the USA) and Chery (of the People’s Republic of China). The special privileges granted to companies operating in the SEZ were terminated with effect from April 2016. However, an offshore economic zone in the territory, with a preferential tax regime, commenced operations in 2018.</p>
     <p>The question of transit between Kaliningrad and metropolitan Russia became a matter of contention with the collapse of the USSR. In the early 1990s Russia had objected to proposals that its citizens would need visas to travel to and from the oblast. Although Lithuania and Russia signed an agreement concerning the transport of military equipment and troops in 1993, subsequent Lithuanian attempts to alter the terms of the agreement complicated matters. In 1997 Russia and Lithuania signed a state border delimitation treaty, although Russia did not ratify the agreement until 2003. Lithuania’s imminent entry to the EU (as a consequence of which the EU demanded stricter entry requirements to that country for citizens of non-EU countries) provided a stimulus for a deal on transit arrangements. From 2003, under an EU-Russia agreement, simplified arrangements permitted Russians to transit Lithuanian territory when travelling to and from the exclave.</p>
     <p>In September 2006 a direct sea link between the oblast and metropolitan Russia was established in the light of continuing objections to the EU’s visa policy and Russian national security concerns. Moreover, in response to the plans of the US Administration of President George W. Bush to site elements of the proposed US National Missile Defence programme in the Czech Republic (Czechia) and Poland, on several occasions in 2007-08 the Russian authorities announced that the establishment of missile bases in Kaliningrad Oblast was under consideration. In January 2009, following the election of Barack Obama as US President, Russia announced that plans for any such deployment had been suspended. However, the Obama Administration subsequently announced proposals for the establishment of mobile missile-interceptor units in Poland, and in 2012 Russia deployed a battalion of new S-400 air defence missiles to a base of the Baltic Fleet in Kaliningrad Oblast. In response to US missile defence installations in Eastern Europe and an upgraded presence in Germany, in late 2016 nuclear-capable Iskander-M missiles were relocated from metropolitan Russia to Kaliningrad Oblast, heightening tensions. In February 2018 it was reported that Iskander missiles were to be permanently stationed in Kaliningrad.</p>
     <p>Meanwhile, Polish and Lithuanian representatives were not invited to a ceremony celebrating the city’s 750th anniversary in 2005, which emphasized the Russian status and culture of the city, although German Chancellor Gerhard Schröder (who was subsequently closely involved in the development of a pipeline to transport Russian natural gas to Western Europe) did attend. In 2010 Kaliningrad was one of the principal centres of protest against economic and other policies of the Russian Government; in January around 12,000 people participated in a `march of dissent’ in the city. The increasing unpopularity of Boos was reflected by the decision of the regional branch of the de facto ruling party, United Russia (UR), to nominate the hitherto head of a municipality in the east of the region, Nikolai Tsukanov, as his successor; Tsukanov assumed office as Governor in September 2010.</p>
     <p>Tsukanov was re-elected as Governor in September 2015, but in July 2016 he was reassigned as Presidential Representative to the North-Western Federal Okrug, based in St Petersburg, and Yevgenii Zinichev, hitherto head of the Kaliningrad Oblast branch of the Federal Security Service and a former member of the presidential security service, was appointed as acting Governor. However, he resigned in October, and was succeeded, also in an acting capacity, by the recently appointed Chairman of the Oblast Government, Anton Alikhanov, who was elected Governor in September 2017. Alikhanov was re-elected on 11 September 2022.</p>
     <p>Moves to develop a tourist industry saw a renewed emphasis on the city’s German history. The cathedral (formerly Catholic, but now shared by the Lutheran and Russian Orthodox churches), one of the few buildings in the city to survive the Second World War, was restored. A new Russian Orthodox Cathedral was constructed and opened, in the presence of President Putin, in 2006. Kaliningrad’s Baltic location helped to attract tourists from other parts of Russia, but tourism was in its infancy, compared with neighbouring countries. Kaliningrad was one of 11 cities in the Federation chosen to host the 2018 FIFA World Cup; a new stadium, with a capacity of around 35,000 people, was constructed. In December 2011, meanwhile, the European Parliament and the foreign ministers of Poland and Russia approved a resolution that permitted residents of the oblast visa-free travel for up to 30 consecutive days (or a total of 90 days during a six-month period) to neighbouring regions of Poland around the towns of Elbląg, Gdańsk, Gdynia, Olsztyn and Sopot, and for reciprocal access to Kaliningrad to be granted to residents of those regions (a passport and special permit was, however, required to cross the border). Nevertheless, in July 2016 Poland suspended visa-free access from Kaliningrad Oblast (at the time indicating that it was intended to be temporary and citing security concerns in advance of a North Atlantic Treaty Organization—NATO—summit in the Polish capital, Warsaw, and a major international Roman Catholic youth festival in Kraków), prompting reciprocal action from Russia.</p>
     <p>As tensions continued to rise between Russia and the West following the Russian annexation of the Ukrainian peninsula of Crimea in March 2014, foreign investment in Kaliningrad declined (in large part as a result of the sanctions imposed by the EU against Russia), while the region has grown in military and strategic importance. Extensive military training exercises, the Zapad-2021 Joint Strategic Exercise, were undertaken by the Russian and Belarusian armed forces in September 2021, concentrated in Kaliningrad, Belarus and the western districts of metropolitan Russia. Following Russia’s large-scale invasion of Ukraine on 24 February 2022, from mid-June Lithuania began to limit certain categories of export carried across its territory by train between Kaliningrad and mainland Russia, stating that its actions were undertaken in order to comply with EU sanctions; the restrictions were further extended in mid-July, despite threats of retaliatory action from Russia. However, by late July rail transit between Kaliningrad and Russia had been permitted to resume, after the EU announced that sanctions applied only to sanctioned goods transported by road. In early August Alikhanov protested, however, that the EU’s annual transit quota of some 500,000 metric tons of goods had already been reached. Meanwhile, it was reported in August that Russia’s federal defence ministry had deployed three warplanes equipped with hypersonic missiles to Kaliningrad Oblast. Amid concern that Russia planned to facilitate the illegal entry into EU member state Poland, via Kaliningrad, of migrants from the Middle East and North Africa (in what had been dubbed a form of `hybrid warfare’), in early November the Polish Government began work to construct a fence that was to extend along the entire length of that country’s border with the exclave.</p>
</essay>