<?xml version="1.0"?>
<chronology id="LT.CHRON" id-root="lt" original-filename="unknown" region="CASEE" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>Chronology</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Lithuania</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Chronology</alt-heading>
     <chron-list>
          <chron-entry from-date="1231-01-01" to-date="1231-12-31">
               <chron-head>
        1231 
        <sc>ce</sc>
               </chron-head>
               <chron-text>Mindouh (Mindaugas), a regional chieftain, united Lithuanian tribes by founding the Grand Duchy of Lithuania (Litva) and Rus (many of the ruling class were Orthodox Slavs).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1386-01-01" to-date="1386-12-31">
               <chron-head>1387</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following the personal union between Lithuania and Poland by the marriage of the Lithuanian Grand Duke Jogaila (Jagiełło, baptized Wladysław in 1386) and the Polish Queen Jadwiga (Hedwig), Lithuania officially adopted Catholic Christianity.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1392-01-01" to-date="1430-12-31">
               <chron-head>1392-1430</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Vytautas (Witold) `the Great’ expanded Lithu­anian power further east and south.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1569-01-01" to-date="1569-12-31">
               <chron-head>1569</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Lithuania (which included much of modern Belarus) surrendered its separate status by the Union of Lublin, which created a new Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1795-01-01" to-date="1795-12-31">
               <chron-head>1795</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Russian Empire annexed Lithuania.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1915-01-01" to-date="1915-12-31">
               <chron-head>1915</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Lithuania was occupied by German troops during the First World War.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1918-02-16">
               <chron-head>16 February 1918</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A Council of Lithuania, elected by a Lithuanian Conference in September 1917, declared independence.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1919-01-01" to-date="1919-12-31">
               <chron-head>1919</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Lithuanian troops prevented the successive attempted invasions of Lithuania by Russian Bolshevik, German and White’ (anti-Bolshevik) Russian forces.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1920-04-01" to-date="1920-04-30">
               <chron-head>April 1920</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Elections were held to the Constituent Assembly.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1920-07-12">
               <chron-head>12 July 1920</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Soviet Russia recognized Lithuania’s independence.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1920-10-09">
               <chron-head>9 October 1920</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Polish army captured Vilnius and its surrounding area. Poland subsequently recognized the independent state of Lithuania, with a capital at Kaunas.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1922-08-01">
               <chron-head>1 August 1922</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A Constitution, declaring Lithuania a parliamentary democracy, was adopted.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1923-01-01" to-date="1923-12-31">
               <chron-head>1923</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Lithuania occupied the former German territory of Klaipėda (Memel), which was under the jurisdiction of the League of Nations.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1926-12-17">
               <chron-head>16 December 1926</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Antanas Smetona, the leader of the Lietuvių Tautininkų Sąjunga (Lithuanian Nationalist Union) and former Chairman of the Council of Lithuania, seized power in a military coup, overthrowing a left-wing Government elected in May.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1938-01-01" to-date="1938-12-31">
               <chron-head>1938</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Diplomatic relations with Poland were restored.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1939-08-23">
               <chron-head>23 August 1939</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In the Secret Protocols’ to the Nazi-Soviet Pact (Treaty of Non-Aggression), Lithuania was assigned to the German `sphere of influence’. On 28 September, however, the Treaty on Friendship and Existing Borders, agreed between Germany and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR), permitted the USSR to occupy Lithuania, and on 10 October Lithuania was compelled to sign a Treaty of Mutual Assistance with the USSR. Vilnius was returned to Lithuania, which was required to accept the stationing of 20,000 Soviet troops on its territory.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1940-06-15">
               <chron-head>15 June 1940</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Soviet Red Army invaded Lithuania; Smetona fled the country and a puppet’ Government was formed. On 3 August Lithuania was formally incorporated into the USSR.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1941-06-01" to-date="1941-06-30">
               <chron-head>June 1941</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Some 20,000 Lithuanians were deported to Siberia, Russia, shortly before the German invasion of the USSR and occupation of Lithuania, during which some 210,000 people were killed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1944-01-01" to-date="1944-12-31">
               <chron-head>1944</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Red Army recaptured Lithuania. The collectivization of agriculture and further deportations commenced. Partisan resistance to Soviet rule continued until 1952.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1972-05-01" to-date="1972-05-31">
               <chron-head>May 1972</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Anti-communist demonstrations took place in Kaunas.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1988-06-03">
               <chron-head>3 June 1988</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Lithuanian Movement for Reconstruction (Sąjūdis) was formed by a group of intellectuals and writers.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1988-10-01" to-date="1988-10-31">
               <chron-head>October 1988</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The First Secretary of the Communist Party of Lithuania (CPL), Ringaudas Songaila, was dismissed and succeeded by Algirdas Brazauskas.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1988-11-01" to-date="1988-11-30">
               <chron-head>November 1988</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Lithuanian Supreme Soviet (Supreme Council) recognized Lithuanian as the state language.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1989-03-01" to-date="1989-03-31">
               <chron-head>March 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In the elections to the all-Union Congress of People’s Deputies, Sąjūdis won 36 of the 42 contested seats in Lithuania.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1989-05-18">
               <chron-head>18 May 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Lithuanian Supreme Soviet approved a declaration of sovereignty, asserting the supremacy of Lithuania’s laws over all-Union legislation.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1989-12-20">
               <chron-head>20 December 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The CPL declared its independence from the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, stating its support for multi-party democracy and independent statehood.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1990-02-24">
               <chron-head>24 February 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Sąjūdis won a majority of seats in the elections to the Lithuanian Supreme Soviet.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1990-03-11">
               <chron-head>11 March 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Supreme Soviet declared the restoration of Lithuanian independence, the first of the Soviet republics to make such a declaration, electing Vytautas Landsbergis, the Sąjūdis leader, as its Chairman (de facto Head of State).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1990-04-01" to-date="1990-04-30">
               <chron-head>April 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The USSR imposed an economic embargo on Lithuania. Soviet forces had also occupied CPL buildings in Vilnius and taken control of newsprint presses. In June Lithuania agreed to a six-month moratorium on independence.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1991-01-01" to-date="1991-01-31">
               <chron-head>January 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Landsbergis announced the end of the suspension of the declaration of independence. Soviet troops fired on civilians in Vilnius; 15 people were killed and 500 injured.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-02-09">
               <chron-head>9 February 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a referendum on independence, in which 84% of the population participated, 90.5% of the votes were in favour.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1991-08-01" to-date="1991-08-31">
               <chron-head>August 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>While an attempted coup by conservative communists was under way in the Soviet capital, Moscow, Soviet military vehicles entered Vilnius. When the coup collapsed, the Lithuanian Government ordered the withdrawal of Soviet forces from the republic.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-09-06">
               <chron-head>6 September 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The USSR State Council formally acknowledged Lithuania’s independence. Later in the month Lithuania was admitted to the United Nations (UN).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1992-10-25">
               <chron-head>25 October and 15 November 1992</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Voting to a renamed legislature, the Seimas (Parliament) took place, in which the former CPL, renamed the Lietuvos Demokratinė Darbo Partija (LDDP—Lithuanian Democratic Labour Party), won 76 of the 141 seats; Sąjūdis won 49. A referendum held concurrently with the first round of voting approved a new Constitution. It entered into effect on 6 November.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1992-12-01" to-date="1992-12-31">
               <chron-head>December 1992</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Bronislovas Lubys was appointed Prime Minister, leading a coalition Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1993-02-14">
               <chron-head>14 February 1993</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Algirdas Brazauskas, the hitherto legislative Chairman, was elected President.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1996-02-01" to-date="1996-02-28">
               <chron-head>February 1996</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Parliament approved a presidential decree dismissing Adolfas Šleževičius as Prime Minister; in October he was charged with abuse of power. Laurynas Mindaugas Stankevičius was appointed as his successor.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1996-10-20" to-date="1996-11-10">
               <chron-head>20 October and 10 November 1996</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In legislative elections, the Tėvynės Sąjunga (TS—Homeland Union) secured 70 seats and the Lietuvos Krikščionių Demokratų Partija (LKDP—Christian Democratic Party of Lithuania) 16; the Lietuvos Centro Sąjunga (LtCS) won 13, and the LDDP and the Lietuvos Socialdemokratų Partija (LSDP—Lithuanian Social Democratic Party) each won 12. The TS and the LKDP formed a coalition, supported by the LtCS. Landsbergis again became parliamentary speaker and Vagnorius returned as premier.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1998-01-04">
               <chron-head>4 January 1998</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a second round of voting, Valdas Adamkus, a retired environmental protection executive who had mainly lived in the USA, was elected President, narrowly defeating Artūras Paulauskas, a former Prosecutor-General; Adamkus was inaugurated on 26 February.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1999-05-01" to-date="1999-05-31">
               <chron-head>May 1999</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Vagnorius resigned as premier. The Mayor of Vilnius, Rolandas Paksas, was appointed as his successor, leading a Government comprising mainly members of the TS and the LKDP.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1999-10-01" to-date="1999-10-31">
               <chron-head>October 1999</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Paksas resigned as Prime Minister. His successor, Andrius Kubilius, led a largely unaltered Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2000-10-08">
               <chron-head>8 October 2000</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In legislative elections, the A. Brazausko Socialdemokratinė Koalicija (A.&#160;Brazauskas Social Democratic Coalition—an alliance led by the LDDP and the LSDP) obtained 51 of the 141 seats; the Lietuvos Liberalų Sąjunga (LLS—Lithuanian Liberal Union), led by Paksas, secured 34 seats and the left-wing Naujoji Sąjunga—Socialliberalai (NS, New Union—Social Liberals), led by Paulauskas, 29. The TS won only nine seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2000-10-12">
               <chron-head>12 October 2000</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Paulauskas was elected Chairman of the Parliament, and Paksas became Prime Minister; the Parliament approved a LLS-NS coalition Government in November.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2001-06-18">
               <chron-head>20 June 2001</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Paksas resigned as Prime Minister, after the NS ministers left the Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2001-07-03">
               <chron-head>3 July 2001</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Brazauskas, the leader of the LSDP, became Prime Minister; a new cabinet was approved two days later.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2003-01-05">
               <chron-head>22 December 2002 and 5 January 2003</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Paksas (who had been expelled from the LLS) was elected President, defeating Adamkus. He was inaugurated on 26 February.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-03-29">
               <chron-head>29 March 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Lithuania became a full member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-04-06">
               <chron-head>6 April 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Parliament voted to impeach Paksas on three charges of corruption.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-05-01">
               <chron-head>1 May 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Lithuania joined the European Union (EU).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-06-27">
               <chron-head>13 and 27 June 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Adamkus was elected as President, defeating Kazimira Danutė Prunskienė (Prime Minister in 1990-91) in the run-off. He was inaugurated on 12 July.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 June 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In elections to the European Parliament, the populist Darbo Partija (DP—Labour Party) won five of the 13 seats allocated to Lithuania. The LSDP, the TS and the Liberalų Centro Sąjunga (LCS—Liberal and Centre Union) each obtained two seats. Prunskienė’s Valstiečių ir Naujosios Demokratijos Partijų Sąjungos (VNDS—Peasants’ and New Democracy Union) and Paksas’s Liberalų Demokratų Partija (Liberal Democratic Party) each won one seat; 48.3% of the electorate participated.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-10-10">
               <chron-head>10 and 24 October 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In legislative elections, the DP received 39 seats, a coalition of the LSDP and the NS 31, and the TS 25. Only 46.1% of the electorate participated.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-12-14">
               <chron-head>14 December 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A Government, comprising representatives of the DP, the LSDP, the NS and the VNDS, and led by Brazauskas, was approved. Viktor Uspaskikh, the DP Chairman, became Minister of the Economy.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2005-03-01">
               <chron-head>1 March 2005</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Court of Appeal overturned a ruling made by a lower court, which had effectively acquitted Paksas of revealing state secrets, making him liable for a fine.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2005-06-17">
               <chron-head>17 June 2005</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Uspaskikh resigned from the Council of Ministers and from Parliament, after a parliamentary commission ruled he had violated the principle of the separation of public and private interests.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2006-07-18">
               <chron-head>18 July 2006</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Council of Ministers was approved, led by Gediminas Kirkilas of the LSDP.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2008-01-28">
               <chron-head>28 January 2008</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The NS joined the ruling coalition, giving it a parliamentary majority.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2008-10-12">
               <chron-head>12 and 26 October 2008</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In legislative elections, the TS-LKD (recently formed by the merger of the TS and the LKDP) won 45 seats, ahead of the LSDP, with 25, the Tautos Prisikėlimo Partija (TPP—National Revival Party), with 16, and the Partijos Tvarka ir Teisingumas (TT—Order and Justice Party), with 15. The Lietuvos Respublikos Liberalų Sąjūdis (LRLS—Liberal Movement of the Republic of Lithuania) won 11 seats, while a coalition of the DP and the Jaunimas (Youth Party) took 10, and the LCS eight.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2008-11-28">
               <chron-head>28 November 2008</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Parliament approved Kubilius as Prime Minister, to head a coalition Government including members of his TS-LKD, the LRLS, the LCS and the TPP.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2009-05-17">
               <chron-head>17 May 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Dalia Grybauskaitė, hitherto a European Commissioner, was elected President. She was inaugurated on 12 July.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2009-06-07">
               <chron-head>7 June 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In elections to the European Parliament, of the 12 seats now allocated to Lithuania, the TS-LKD won four, the LSDP three and the TT two, while the DP, the Akcja Wyborcza Polaków na Litwie (AWPL—Electoral Action of Poles in Lithuania) and the LRLS each obtained one seat. The rate of participation, at 21.0%, was the second lowest of any EU country.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 January 2010</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Minister of Foreign Affairs Vygaudas Ušackas resigned, after a parliamentary investigation confirmed the existence in Lithuania of two secret detention centres operated by the USA’s Central Intelligence Agency in 2002-06.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>14 and 28 October 2012</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In legislative elections, representation of the parties of the ruling TS-LKD-led coalition dropped to 36 seats, while the LSDP’s representation increased to 34 seats and that of the DP to 30 seats; the LRLS took 11 seats, the TT 10 and the AWPL nine.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 December 2012</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Government, led by LSDP Chairman Algirdas Butkevičius, and comprising members of the LSDP, the DP, the TT and the AWPL, secured the approval of the Parliament.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>12 July 2013</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Uspaskikh was found guilty of fraud by Vilnius Regional Court, together with other senior DP officials, and sentenced to four years’ imprisonment. He subsequently lodged a successful appeal against his sentence.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 April 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The UN Human Rights Committee, ruling on an appeal by Paksas, stated that the 2004 ban imposed by the Constitutional Court preventing him from seeking presidential office should be annulled, on the grounds that it violated his human rights, confirming a similar ruling by the European Court of Human Rights in 2011.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>11 and 25 May 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following two rounds of voting, Grybauskaitė obtained 59.1% of the votes cast in a run-off poll, winning a second term of office as President. In elections to the European Parliament, held concurrently with the second round of presidential voting, the TS-LKD, the LSDP, the LRLS and the TT each won two seats, and the DP, the AWPL and the Lietuvos Valstiečių ir Žaliųjų Sąjunga (LVŽS—Lithuanian Farmers’ and Greens’ Union) each won one seat. Some 47.4% of the electorate participated.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>19 August 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Grybauskaitė dismissed Jaroslav Neverovič as Minister of Energy, removing the AWPL from the Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>1 January 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Lithuania adopted the euro as its currency.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>19 March 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Amid increasing concern about Russia’s foreign policy, the Parliament voted to reintroduce military conscription (which had been suspended since 2008). NATO had recently announced the establishment of a command centre in Lithuania.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 and 23 October 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Legislative elections were held. The LVŽS was first placed, increasing its representation from one seat to 54 seats, followed by the TS-LKD, with 31, the LSDP with 17, and the LRLS, with 14.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 December 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Government took office, led by Skvernelis, largely comprising independents affiliated with the LVŻS, and members of the LVŽS and the LSDP.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>22 September 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The LSDP voted to withdraw from the ruling coalition.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>26 May 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a second round of presidential voting, former banker Gitanas Nausėda was elected as President with 65.7% of the votes. The rate of participation by the electorate in the second round was 53.9%. In elections to the European Parliament, the TS-LKD secured three seats. The LSDP and the LVŽS each won two seats, and the DP, the LRLS and the Lietuvos Lenkų Rinkimų Akcija-Krikščioniškų Šeimų Sąjunga (LLRA-KŠS—Electoral Action of Lithuanian Poles-Christian Families Alliance) won a seat each, as did one candidate supported by an independent public committee. Nausėda was sworn in as President on 12 July.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 July 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new coalition agreement was signed between the LVŽS, the Lietuvos Socialdemokratų Darbo Partija (LSDDP—Lithuanian Social Democratic Labour Party—founded in 2018 by former members of the LSDP and the DP), the LLRA-KŠS and the TT.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>7 August 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Nausėda approved a reorganized Government, under Skvernelis. Rita Tamašunienę, a LLRA-KŠS representative, was appointed as Minister of the Interior, while Linas Linkevičius of the LSDDP was Minister of Foreign Affairs.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>1 December 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Virginijus Sinkevičius, hitherto the Minister of the Economy and Innovation, became a European Commissioner. Rimantas Sinkevičius of the LSDDP was appointed to the vacant post at the end of June.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>26 February 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Government declared a state of emergency. A nationwide quarantine, including the partial closure of the country’s borders, commenced on 16 March and lasted until mid-June, and was reimposed between November and June 2021. A vaccination programme commenced on 27 December 2020.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>11 and 25 October 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In legislative elections the TS-LKD won 50 seats (27 of which were secured in single-mandate constituencies). The LVŽS secured 32 seats (a loss of 22 seats), while the LSDP and the LRLS each obtained 13 seats. The Laisvės Partija (LP—Freedom Party—founded in 2019 by former members of the LRLS) obtained 11 seats and the DP won 10. Amid the pandemic, the rate of participation by the electorate was 47.8% in the first round, and 9.0% in the second.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>11 December 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Government, led by Ingrida Šimonytė of the TS-LKD and comprising members of that party, the LP and the LRLS, was approved with the support of 78 deputies in the Parliament. Ministers included Aušrinė Armonaitė, the Chairman of the LP, as Minister of the Economy and Innovation and TS-LKD Chairman Gabrielius Landsbergis as Minister of Foreign Affairs.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 November 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The People’s Republic of China downgraded its relations with Lithuania and withdrew its ambassador, after the Republic of China (Taiwan) opened a Representative Office in Vilnius under the name `Taiwan’ (rather than `Taipei’).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>10 December 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Landsbergis and Minister of Transport and Communications Marius Skuodis offered to resign, after it emerged that potash fertilizer from Belarusian manufacturer Belaruskali continued to cross Lithuania under a previous contract between Lithuanian Railways and Belaruskali, in breach of EU and US sanctions against Belarus. Šimonytė retained Landsbergis and Skuodis in office, although the head of Lithuanian Railways resigned.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>24 February 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In response to the full-scale Russian invasion of Ukraine, President Nausėda declared a state of emergency, which was unanimously approved by the Parliament. The legislature also adopted a resolution unanimously condemning aggression by Russia (and Belarus) against Ukraine. On the following day Lithuania’s Radio and Television Commission suspended the operation of six Russian-language television channels.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>1 April 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Lithuania became the first EU member state to halt all gas imports from Russia, and shortly afterwards it expelled the Russian ambassador (amid reports of war crimes against civilians in Ukraine).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>17 June 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Lithuania began to limit certain categories of export carried by trains traversing its territory from the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad to mainland Russia, stating that its actions were undertaken in order to comply with EU sanctions; however, in late July rail transit resumed, after the EU stated that sanctions applied only to transportation by road.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 and 19 March 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Local elections took place in two rounds. The LSDP was the leading party, winning 358 seats in municipal councils nationwide and 17 mayoral posts, followed by the TS-LKD with 239 seats and five mayoral posts and the LVŽS with 185 seats and eight mayoral posts. Voter turnout was 48.9% in the first round and 45.8% in the second round.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>6 June 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The legislature rejected a demand for snap elections brought by the TS-LKD, amid a scandal over the alleged past misuse of expenses involving three cabinet members that had led to the resignation of Minister of Education, Science and Sport Jurgita Siugždinienė. Šimonytė had threatened to resign if the demand was refused, although this was subsequently retracted.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>11-12 July 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>
        A NATO summit was held in Vilnius, at which `the most comprehensive defence plans since the end of the Cold War
        
        ’ were agreed, and NATO heads of state and government confirmed a package of support for Ukraine, including the establishment of a NATO-Ukraine Council and confirmation of its future membership of the Alliance.
      </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
     </chron-list>
</chronology>