<?xml version="1.0"?>
<bibl-section id="CASEE.BOOKS.1" id-root="casee" iso="" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="BIBL-REF" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>Select Bibliography (Books)</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Regional Information</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Select Bibliography (Books)</alt-heading>
     <heading-note>See also the Bibliography provided for each individual country</heading-note>
     <bibl-list>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1185381457" type="FULL">
      Aalto, P. 
      <i>The European Union and the Making of a Wider Northern Europe</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2006.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Aleksseva, O. and Heinrich, H.-G. 
      <i>Ethnic Minorities of Central and Eastern Europe in the Internet Space: A Computer-Assisted Content Analysis</i>
      . Frankfurt am Main, Peter Lang GmbH, 2014.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.4" type="FULL">
      Allcock, J. B., Milivojević, M. and Horton, J. J. (Eds). 
      <i>Conflict in the former Yugoslavia: An Encyclopedia</i>
      . Santa Barbara, CA, ABC-Clio, 1998.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1465558322" type="FULL">
      Anastasakis, A., Madden, D. and Roberts, E. (Eds). 
      <i>Balkan Legacies of the Great War</i>
      . London, Palgrave Macmillan, 2016.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Anastasakis, O., Bennett, A., Madden, D. and Merdzanović, A. (Eds). 
      <i>The Legacy of Yugoslavia: Politics, Economics and Society in the Modern Balkans</i>
      . London, Bloomsbury, 2020.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Anastasakis, O., Pratsinakis, M., Kalantzi, F. and Kamaras, A. (Eds). 
      <i>Diaspora Engagement in Times of Severe Economic Crisis</i>
      . London, Palgrave Macmillan, 2022.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Arató, K., Koller, B. and Pelle, A. 
      <i>The Political Economy of the Eurozone in Central and Eastern Europe Why In, Why Out?</i>
       Abingdon, Routledge, 2021.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.5" type="FULL">
      Ardittis, S. (Ed.). 
      <i>The Politics of East-West Migration</i>
      . London, Macmillan, 1994.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1216902211" type="FULL">
      Ascherson, N. 
      <i>Black Sea: The Birthplace of Civilization and Barbarism</i>
      . Colchester, Vintage, 2007.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1234" type="FULL">
      Aslund, A. 
      <i>How Capitalism was Built: The Transformation of Central and Eastern Europe, Russia, and Central Asia.</i>
       New York, Cambridge University Press, 2007.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.204.1059559956" type="FULL">
      Asmus, R. D. 
      <i>Opening NATO’s Door</i>
      . New York, Columbia University Press, 2002.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1119284470" type="FULL">
      Auer, S. 
      <i>Liberal Nationalism in Central Europe</i>
      . London, Routledge, 2004.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.07" type="FULL">
      Bakke, E. and Peters, I. (Eds). 
      <i>20 Years Since the Fall of the Berlin Wall: Transitions, State Break-up and Democratic Politics in Central Europe and Germany</i>
      . Berlin, BWV—Berliner Wissenschafts-Verlag, 2011.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.121415072013" type="FULL">
      Balmaceda, M. M. 
      <i>Politics of Energy Dependency: Ukraine, Belarus, and Lithuania between Domestic Oligarchs and Russian Pressure, 1992-2012</i>
      . Toronto, ON, University of Toronto Press, 2013.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.4321" type="FULL">
      Barisitz, S. 
      <i>Banking in Central and Eastern Europe 1980-2006: From Communism to Capitalism.</i>
       Abingdon, Routledge, 2007.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.11490" type="FULL">
      Barnett, N. 
      <i>Tito</i>
      . London, Haus Publishing Ltd, 2006.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1203682700" type="FULL">
      Bartlett, W. 
      <i>Europe's Troubled Region: Economic Development, Institutional Reform and Social Welfare in the Western Balkans</i>
      . London, Routledge, 2008.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Bartov, O. 
      <i>Tales from the Borderlands: Making and Unmaking the Galician Past</i>
      . New Haven, CT, Yale University Press, 2022.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.7" type="FULL">
      Bátonyi, G. 
      <i>Britain and Central Europe 1918-1933</i>
      . Oxford, Oxford University Press, 1999.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1119454252" type="FULL">
      Batt, J. and Wolczuk, K. 
      <i>Region, State and Identity in Central and Eastern Europe</i>
      . London, Routledge, 2002.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1373538298" type="FULL">
      Baun, M. and Marek, D. (Eds). 
      <i>The New Member States and the European Union: Foreign Policy and Europeanization</i>
       (Routledge Advances in European Politics). Abingdon, Routledge, 2013.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Beachin, D., Sheridan, V. and Stan, S. 
      <i>Life in Post-Communist Eastern Europe after EU Membership: Happy Ever After?</i>
       Abingdon, Routledge, 2012.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Bechev, D. 
      <i>Constructing South East Europe: The Politics of Balkan Regional Cooperation</i>
      . Basingstoke, Palgrave Macmillan, 2011.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
               <i>Rival Power: Russia in Southeast Europe</i>
      . London, Yale University Press, 2017.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Bennett, A., Kincaid, R., Sanfey, P. and Watson, M. 
      <i>Economic and Policy Foundations for Growth in South East Europe</i>
      . London, Palgrave Macmillan, 2015.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.10" type="FULL">
      Berend, I. T. 
      <i>Central and Eastern Europe 1944-1993: Detour from the Periphery to the Periphery</i>
      . Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 1996.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.11" type="FULL">
      Berglund, S., Tomas, H. and Aarebrot, F. H. 
      <i>The Handbook of Political Change in Eastern Europe</i>
      . Cheltenham, Edward Elgar, 1998.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Bichta, T. and Kimak, I. 
      <i>Political Systems of the Former Yugoslavia: Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia and Slovenia</i>
       (Studies in Politics, Security and Society). New York, Peter Lang, 2018.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.12" type="FULL">
      Bideleux, R. and Jeffries, I. 
      <i>A History of Eastern Europe: Crisis and Change</i>
      . London, Routledge, 1998.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1174987763" type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
               <i>The Balkans: A Post-Communist History</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2007.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Bieber, F. (Ed.). 
      <i>EU Conditionality in the Western Balkans</i>
       (Routledge Europe-Asia Studies). Abingdon, Routledge, 2013.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
               <i>The Rise of Authoritarianism in the Western Balkans</i>
       (New Perspectives on South-East Europe). Abingdon, Routledge, 2019.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Bieber, F. and Tzifakis, N. (Eds). 
      <i>The Western Balkans in the World: Linkages and Relations with Non-Western Countries</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2019.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1245331311" type="FULL">
      Blasko, A. N. and Januauškienė, D. (Eds). 
      <i>Political Transformation and Changing Identities in Central and Eastern Europe</i>
      . Washington, DC, Council for Research in Values and Philosophy, 2008.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Blokker, P. 
      <i>New Democracies in Crisis? A Comparative Constitutional Study of the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania and Slovakia</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2013.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Bojičić-Dzelilović, V., Ker-Lindsay, J. and Kostovicova, D. 
      <i>Civil Society and Transitions in the Western Balkans</i>
       (New Perspectives on South-East Europe). Basingstoke, Palgrave Macmillan, 2013.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1373538766" type="FULL">
      Bokros, L. 
      <i>Accidental Occidental: Economics and Culture of Transition in Mitteleuropa, the Baltic and the Balkan Area</i>
      . Budapest, Central European University Press, 2012.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Borger, J. 
      <i>The Butcher's Trail: How the Search for Balkan War Criminals Became the World's Most Successful Manhunt</i>
      . New York, Other Stories, 2016.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Borodziej, W., Holubec, S., and von Puttkamer, J. (Eds). 
      <i>The Routledge History Handbook of Central and Eastern Europe in the Twentieth Century, Volume 1: Challenges of Modernity</i>
       (The Routledge Twentieth Century History Handbooks). Abingdon, Routledge, 2020.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
               <i>The Routledge History Handbook of Central and Eastern Europe in the Twentieth Century, Volume 2: Statehood</i>
       (The Routledge Twentieth Century History Handbooks). Abingdon, Routledge, 2020.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Börzel, T. A. 
      <i>Coping with Accession to the European Union: New Modes of Environmental Governance </i>
      . Basingstoke, Palgrave Macmillan, 2010.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.14" type="FULL">
      Bougarel, X. and Clayer, N. (Eds). 
      <i>Le Nouvel Islam Balkanique: les Musulmans, Acteurs du Postcommunisme, 1990-2000</i>
      . Paris, Editions Maisonneuve et Larose, 2001.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.15" type="FULL">
      Bridger, S. and Pine, F. (Eds). 
      <i>Surviving Post­-Socialism: Local Strategies and Regional Responses in Eastern Europe and the Former Soviet Union</i>
      . London, Routledge, 1998.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Brix, E. and Busek E. 
      <i>Central Europe Revisited: Why Europe’s Future Will Be Decided in the Region</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2023.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.16" type="FULL">
      Brogan, P. 
      <i>Eastern Europe 1939-1989: The Fifty Years War</i>
      . London, Bloomsbury, 1990.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Brunclík, M., and Kubát, M. 
      <i>Semi-presidentialism, Parliamentarism and Presidents: Presidential Politics in Central Europe</i>
       (Routledge Research on Social and Political Elites). Abingdon, Routledge, 2018.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.17" type="FULL">
      Brunner, G. 
      <i>Nationality Problems and Minority Conflicts in Eastern Europe</i>
      . Gütersloh, Bertelsmann Foundation, 1996.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1800" type="FULL">
      Bugajski, J. 
      <i>Political Parties of Eastern Europe: A Guide to Politics in the Post-Communist Era</i>
      . New York, M. E. Sharpe, 2002.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.18" type="FULL">
      Bukowski, C. and Racz, B. (Eds). 
      <i>The Return of the Left in Post-Communist States: Current Trends and Future Prospects</i>
      . Cheltenham, Edward Elgar, 1999.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Bunce, V., McFaul, M. and Stoner-Weiss, K. (Eds). 
      <i>Democracy and Authoritarianism in the Post-communist World</i>
      . Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 2009.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Buzalka, J. 
      <i>The Cultural Economy of Protest in Post-Socialist European Union: Village Fascists and their Rivals</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2020.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Cabada, L., Hloušek, V. and Jurek, P. 
      <i>Party Systems in East Central Europe</i>
      . Langham, MD, Lexington, 2014.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Calic, M.-J. 
      <i>The Great Cauldron: A History of Southeastern Europe</i>
      . Cambridge, MA, Harvard University Press, 2019.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1136475563" type="FULL">
      Caplan, R. 
      <i>Europe and the Recognition of New States in Yugoslavia</i>
      . Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 2005.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1119454140" type="FULL">
      Carmichael, C. 
      <i>Ethnic Cleansing in the Balkans</i>
      . London, Routledge, 2002.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.20" type="FULL">
      Carter, F. W. and Norris, H. T. (Eds). 
      <i>The Changing Shape of the Balkans</i>
      . London, UCL Press, 1996.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Caspersen, N. 
      <i>Contested Nationalism: Serb Elite Rivalry in Croatia and Bosnia in the 1990s</i>
      . New York, Berghahn Books, 2010.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Causević, F. 
      <i>Globalization, Southeastern Europe, and the World Economy</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2015.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Cheskin, A. and Kachuyevski, A. 
      <i>The Russian-speaking Populations in the Post-Soviet Space: Language, Politics and Identity</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2021.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Clark, C. 
      <i>The Sleepwalkers</i>
      . London, Penguin, 2013.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.23" type="FULL">
      Clark, V. 
      <i>Why Angels Fall: A Journey through Orthodox Europe from Byzantium to Kosovo</i>
      . London, Macmillan, 2000.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.24" type="FULL">
      Clark, W. K. 
      <i>Waging Modern War: Bosnia, Kosovo and the Future of Combat</i>
      . New York, Public Affairs, 2001.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Clarke, C. 
      <i>Understanding the Baltic States: Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania since 1991</i>
      . London, C Hurst and Co, 2023.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.7654737" type="FULL">
      Cohen, L.&#160;J. and Dragović-Soso, J. (Eds). 
      <i>State Collapse in South-Eastern Europe: New Perspectives on Yugoslavia’s Disintegration.</i>
       West Lafayette, IN, Purdue University Press, 2007.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Coman, R. and Tomini, L. 
      <i>The State of Democracy in Central and Eastern Europe: A Comparative Perspective</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2015.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.27" type="FULL">
      Conquest, R. and Djordjevich, D. (Eds). 
      <i>Political and Ideological Confrontations in Twentieth Century Europe. Essays in Honour of Miorad M. Drachkovitch</i>
      . New York, St Martin's Press, 1996.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Conti, N., Göncz, B. and Real-Dato, J. 
      <i>National Political Elites, European Integration and the Eurozone Crisis</i>
       (Routledge Research on Social and Political Elites). Abingdon, Routledge, 2018.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.28" type="FULL">
      Corrin, C. (Ed.). 
      <i>Gender and Identity in Central and Eastern Europe</i>
      . London, Frank Cass, 1999.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.29" type="FULL">
      Cottey, A. (Ed.). 
      <i>Sub-regional Co-operation in the New Europe: Building Security, Prosperity and Solidarity from the Barents to the Black Sea</i>
      . London, Routledge (in association with the EastWest Institute), 1999.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1245324908" type="FULL">
      Cox, T. (Ed.). 
      <i>Challenging Communism in Eastern Europe: 1956 and its Legacy</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2008.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.31" type="FULL">
      Crampton, R. and Crampton, B. 
      <i>Atlas of Eastern Europe in the Twentieth Century</i>
      . London, Routledge, 1997.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.32" type="FULL">
      Crampton, R. J. 
      <i>The Balkans Since the Second World War.</i>
       Harlow, Longman, 2002.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.33" type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
               <i>Eastern Europe in the Twentieth Century and After</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2016 (third edn).
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.34" type="FULL">
      Crowe, D. 
      <i>The Baltic States and the Great Powers: Foreign Relations, 1938-1940</i>
      . Boulder, CO, Westview Press, 1993.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Dallago, B. and Rosefielde, S. 
      <i>Transformation and Crisis in Central and Eastern Europe: Challenges and Prospects</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2016.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.36" type="FULL">
      Dawisha, K. and Parrott, B. 
      <i>Politics, Power and the Struggle for Democracy in South-East Europe</i>
      . Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 1997.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Dawson, J. 
      <i>Cultures of Democracy in Serbia and Bulgaria: How Ideas Shape Publics</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2014.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.9876" type="FULL">
      Deacon, B. and Stubbs, P. (Eds). 
      <i>Social Policy and International Interventions in South East Europe.</i>
       Northampton, MA, Edward Elgar, 2007.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      De Giorgi, E. and Moury, C. 
      <i>Government-Opposition in Southern European Countries during the Economic Crisis: Great Recession, Great Cooperation?</i>
       Abingdon, Routledge, 2017.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1245324053" type="FULL">
      Detrez, R. and Segaert, B. (Eds). 
      <i>Europe and the Historical Legacies in the Balkans.</i>
       Oxford, Peter Lang, 2008.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.38" type="FULL">
      De Zayas, A.-M. and Barber, C. M. 
      <i>A Terrible Revenge: the Ethnic Cleansing of the East European Germans 1944-1950</i>
      . New York, St Martin's Press, 1994.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Dhand, O. 
      <i>The Idea of Central Europe</i>
      . London, I. B. Tauris, 2018.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOK.1119284657" type="FULL">
      Dimitrova, A. L. 
      <i>Driven to Change: The European Union's Enlargement Viewed from the East</i>
      . Manchester, Manchester University Press, 2004.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Dimou, A. 
      <i>Entangled Paths Towards Modernity: Contextualizing Socialism and Nationalism in the Balkans.</i>
       Budapest, Central European University Press, 2009.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS..1276601864" type="FULL">
      Dobbins, J. 
      <i>et al</i>
      . 
      <i>Europe's Role in Nation-building: From the Balkans to the Congo.</i>
       Santa Monica, CA, RAND Corporation, 2008.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.06" type="FULL">
      Doležalová, E. and Pánek J. (Eds). 
      <i>Confession and Nation in the Era of Reformations: Central Europe in Comparative Perspective</i>
      . Prague, Institute of History, 2011.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Dramac Jiries, T. 
      <i>Balkan Fighters in the Syrian War</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2021.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Drinóczi, T. and Bień-Kacała, A. 
      <i>Illiberal Constitutionalism in Poland and Hungary: The Deterioration of Democracy, Misuse of Human Rights and Abuse of the Rule of Law</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2023.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.39" type="FULL">
      Dunay, P., Kardos, G. and Williams, A. J. 
      <i>New Forms of Security: Views from Central, Eastern and Western Europe</i>
      . Aldershot, Dartmouth, 1995.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Džuverović, N. and Stojarová, V. 
      <i>Peace and Security in the Western Balkans: A Local Perspective</i>
       (Southeast European Studies). Abingdon, Routledge, 2023.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Džankic, J.
      <i> Citizenship in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro: Effects of Statehood and Identity Challenges </i>
       (Southeast European Studies). Abingdon, Routledge, 2017.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.5056" type="FULL">
      Džihid, V. and Hamilton, D. (Eds). 
      <i>Unfinished Business: The Western Balkans and the International Community</i>
      . Center for Transatlantic Relations, Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University, Washington, DC, 2012.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.02" type="FULL">
      Eanuzzi, S. D. and V. Montrony, A. (Eds). 
      <i>Eastern and Central Europe: Politics and Economics</i>
      . Hauppauge, New York, Nova Science, 2011.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.41" type="FULL">
      East, R. and Pontin, J. 
      <i>Revolution and Change in Central and Eastern Europe</i>
      . London, Pinter, 1997 (revised edn).
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.410" type="FULL">
      Eberhar, P. 
      <i>Ethnic Groups and Population Changes in Twentieth-Century Central-Eastern Europe</i>
      . New York, M. E. Sharpe, 2003.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Egremont, M. 
      <i>The Glass Wall: Lives on the Baltic Frontier</i>
      . London, Picador, 2021.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.42" type="FULL">
      Ekiert, G. 
      <i>The State Against Society: Political Crises and their Aftermath in East Central Europe</i>
      . Princeton, NJ, Princeton University Press, 1996.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.43" type="FULL">
      Eksteins, M. 
      <i>Walking Since Daybreak: A Story of Eastern Europe, World War II and the Heart of the Twentieth Century</i>
      . London, Papermac, 1999.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Elbasani, A. 
      <i>European Integration and Transformation in the Western Balkans: Europeanization or Business as Usual?</i>
       Abingdon, Routledge, 2013.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.44" type="FULL">
      Elster, J. (Ed.). 
      <i>The Roundtable Talks and the Breakdown of Communism</i>
      . Chicago, IL, University of Chicago Press, 1996.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.77778" type="FULL">
      Enoch, C. and Ötker-Robe, I. 
      <i>Rapid Credit Growth in Central and Eastern Europe: Endless Boom or Early Warning?</i>
       Basingstoke, Palgrave Macmillan, 2007.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Fábián, K., Elise Johnson, J. and Lazda, M. 
      <i>Routledge Handbook of Gender in Central-Eastern Europe and Eurasia</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2021.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.206.1059560500" type="FULL">
      Falk, B. J. 
      <i>The Dilemmas of Dissidence in East-Central Europe</i>
      . Budapest, Central European University Press, 2003.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Feinberg, M. 
      <i>Communism in Eastern Europe</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2021.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Fine, J.&#160;V.&#160;A. 
      <i>When Ethnicity Did Not Matter in the Balkans: A Study of Identity in Pre-Nationalist Croatia, Dalmatia and Slovenia in the Early Modern Periods.</i>
       Ann Arbor, MI, University of Michigan Press, 2004.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.7653334" type="FULL">
      Fischer, B. J. (Ed.). 
      <i>Balkan Strongmen: Dictators and Authoritarian Rulers of South Eastern Europe.</i>
       London, Hurst, 2007.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.52" type="FULL">
      Fowkes, B. 
      <i>Eastern Europe 1945-1969: From Stalinism to Stagnation</i>
      . Harlow, Pearson Education, 2000.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Freire, A., Lisi, M., Andreadis, I. and Viegas, J.-M. (Eds). 
      <i>Political Representation in Times of Bailout: Evidence from Greece and Portugal</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2017.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1276704190" type="FULL">
      Friedrich, K. and Pendzich, B. M. 
      <i>Citizenship and Identity in a Multinational Commonwealth: Poland-Lithuania in Context, 1550-1772</i>
      . Leiden, Brill, 2009.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.53" type="FULL">
      Frucht, R. (Ed.). 
      <i>Encyclopaedia of Eastern Europe: From the Congress of Vienna to the Fall of Communism</i>
      . New York, Garland, 2000.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Fruscione, G. 
      <i>The Balkans: Old, New Instabilities—A European Region Looking for its Place in the World</i>
      . Milan, Istituto per gli Studi di Politica Internazionale, 2020.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1245323253" type="FULL">
      Galbreath, D. J. 
      <i>Continuity and Change in the Baltic Sea Region: Comparing Foreign Policies</i>
      . Amsterdam, Rodolphi, 2008.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.57" type="FULL">
      Gallagher, T. 
      <i>Outcast Europe: The Balkans 1789 to 1989, From the Ottomans to Milošević</i>
      . London, Routledge, 2001.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.59" type="FULL">
      Gardner, H. (Ed.). 
      <i>Central and Southeast Europe in Transition: Perspectives on Success and Failure since 1989</i>
      . Westport, CT, Praeger, 2000.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.60" type="FULL">
      Garton-Ash, T. 
      <i>We the People: The Revolution of '89 Witnessed in Warsaw, Budapest, Berlin and Prague</i>
      . Cambridge, Granta, 1990.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.61" type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
               <i>History of the Present: Essays, Sketches and Despatches from Europe in the 1990s</i>
      . London, Penguin, 1999.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Geddes, A., Lees, C. and Taylor, A. 
      <i>The European Union and South East Europe: The Dynamics of Europeanization and Multilevel Governance</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2012.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.13072013" type="FULL">
      Gellately, R. 
      <i>Stalin's Curse: Battling for Communism in War and Cold War</i>
      . New York, Alfred A. Knopf, 2013.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1119284220" type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
               <i>The Balkans in the New Millennium</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2005.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.207.1059560626" type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
               <i>The Balkans after Communism: From Tyranny to Tragedy</i>
      . London, Routledge, 2003.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Gerner, K. and Hedlund, S. 
      <i>The Baltic States and the End of the Soviet Empire</i>
      . London, Routledge, 1993.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.127669592221" type="FULL">
      Gerő, A. 
      <i>The Austro-Hungarian Dual Monarchy 1867-1918</i>
      . London, New Holland, 2008.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.444333" type="FULL">
      Getimis, P. and Kafkalas, G. (Eds). 
      <i>Overcoming Fragmentation in Southeast Europe: Spatial Development Trends and Integration Potential.</i>
       Burlington, VT, Ashgate, 2007.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Gibbert, B. 
      <i>Local Legitimacy in Peacebuilding: Pathways to Local Compliance with International Police Reform</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2017.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.62" type="FULL">
      Glenny, M. 
      <i>The Rebirth of History: Eastern Europe in the Age of Democracy</i>
      . London, Penguin, 1990.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.8888" type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
               <i>The Fall of Yugoslavia</i>
      . London, Penguin, 1996.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
               <i>The Balkans, 1804-2012: Nationalism, War and the Great Powers</i>
      . London, Granta, 2017.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Goic, S., Karasavvoglou, A. and Polychronidou, P. (Eds). 
      <i>Finance in Central and Southeastern Europe </i>
       (Contributions to Economics). New York, Springer, 2017.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1090523393" type="FULL">
      Gordon, D. R. and Durst, D. C. (Eds). 
      <i>Civil Society in Southeast Europe</i>
      . Amsterdam, Rodopi, 2004.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Gorzelak, G., Bachtler, J. and Smtkowski, M. (Eds). 
      <i>Regional Development in Central and Eastern Europe</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2010.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.64" type="FULL">
      Grabbe, H. and Hughes, K. 
      <i>Enlarging the EU Eastwards</i>
      . London, Chatham House Papers, Royal Institute of International Affairs, 2000 (reprint).
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Greble, E. 
      <i>Muslims and the Making of Modern Europe</i>
      . New York, Oxford University Press USA, 2022.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1090523602" type="FULL">
      Greenberg, R. D. 
      <i>Language and Identity in the Balkans: Serbo-Croat and its Disintegration.</i>
       Oxford, Oxford University Press, 2004.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.67" type="FULL">
      Gros, D. and Steinherr, A. 
      <i>Economic Transition in Central and Eastern Europe: Planting the Seeds</i>
      . Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 2004 (second edn).
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.68" type="FULL">
      Gruber, R. E. 
      <i>Upon the Doorposts of Thy House: Jewish Life in East-Central Europe, Yesterday and Today</i>
      . New York, John Wiley, 1994.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Guardiancich, I. 
      <i>Pension Reforms in Central, Eastern and Southeastern Europe: From Post-Socialist Transition to the Global Financial Crisis</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2012.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.208.1059560990" type="FULL">
      Guy, W. (Ed.). 
      <i>Between Past and Future: The Roma of Central and Eastern Europe</i>
      . Hatfield, University of Hertfordshire Press, 2001.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.69" type="FULL">
      Haavisto, T. (Ed.). 
      <i>The Transition to a Market Economy: Transformation and Reform in the Baltic States</i>
      . Cheltenham, Edward Elgar, 1997.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1119285535" type="FULL">
      Haerpfer, C. W. 
      <i>Democracy and Enlargement in Post-Communist Europe: The Democratisation of the General Public in 15 Central and Eastern European Countries, 1991-1998</i>
      . London, Rout­ledge, 2002.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.70" type="FULL">
      Hall, D. and Darrick, D. (Eds). 
      <i>Reconstructing the Balkans: A Geography of the New Southeast Europe</i>
      . Chichester, John Wiley, 1996.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1090523522" type="FULL">
      Hammond, A. (Ed.). 
      <i>The Balkans and the West: Constructing the European Other.</i>
       Aldershot, Ashgate, 2004.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Hannapi, H. 
      <i>South-East Europe in Evolution</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2014.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1373538481" type="FULL">
      Haughton, T. 
      <i>Party Politics in Central and Eastern Europe: Does EU Membership Matter?</i>
       Abingdon, Routledge, 2013.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.73" type="FULL">
      Held, J. (Ed.). 
      <i>Democracy and Right-wing Politics in Eastern Europe in the 1990s</i>
      . Boulder, CO, East European Monographs, 1993.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.72" type="FULL">
      Helme, M. 
      <i>Fortress Railways of the Baltic Shores</i>
      . London, Plateway Press, 1994.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.74" type="FULL">
      Henderson, K. (Ed.). 
      <i>Back to Europe: Central and Eastern Europe and the European Union</i>
      . London, UCL Press, 1999.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.75" type="FULL">
      Hiden, J. 
      <i>The Baltic States and Weimar Ostpolitik</i>
      . Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 1987.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.76" type="FULL">
      Hiden, J. and Lane, T. (Eds). 
      <i>The Baltic and the Outbreak of the Second World War</i>
      . Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 1992.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Hiden, J. and Salmon, P. 
      <i>The Baltic Nations and Europe: Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania in the Twentieth Century</i>
      . London, Longman, 1991.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Hodge, C. 
      <i>The Balkans on Trial: Justice vs. Realpolitik</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2019.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.77" type="FULL">
      Holbrooke, R. 
      <i>To End a War</i>
      . New York, Random House, 1998.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Holzer, J. and Mares, M. 
      <i>Challenges to Democracies in East Central Europe</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2016.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.78" type="FULL">
      Hosking, G. and Schöpflin, G. (Eds). 
      <i>Myths and Nationhood</i>
      . London, C. Hurst and Co (in association with the School of Slavonic and East European Studies, University of London), 1997.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.209.1059561093" type="FULL">
      Howard, M. M. 
      <i>The Weakness of Civil Society in Post-Communist Europe</i>
      . College Park, MD, University of Maryland Press, 2003.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1119284776" type="FULL">
      Hughes, J., Sasse, G. and Gordon, C. 
      <i>Europeanization and Regionalization in the EU's Enlargement to Central and Eastern Europe: The Myth of Conditionality</i>
      . New York, Palgrave Macmillan, 2004.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.79" type="FULL">
      Hunya, G. (Ed.). 
      <i>Integration through Foreign Direct Investment: Making Central European Industries Competitive</i>
      . Cheltenham, Edward Elgar (in association with the Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies), 2000.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.211.1059561810" type="FULL">
      Hupchick, D. P. 
      <i>The Balkans: From Constantinople to Communism</i>
      . New York, Palgrave Macmillan, 2002.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Hussain, T. 
      <i>Minarets in the Mountains</i>
      . Chalfont Saint Peter, Bradt Travel Guides, 2021.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.032313072013" type="FULL">
      Ingrao, C. W. and Emmert, T. A. 
      <i>Confronting the Yugoslav Controversies: A Scholars' Initiative</i>
      . Washington, DC, United States Institute of Peace Press, 2013 (second edn).
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.10.1" type="FULL">
      Isański, J. and Luczys, P. (Eds). 
      <i>Selling One's Favourite Piano to Emigrate: Mobility Patterns in Central Europe at the Beginning of the 21st Century</i>
      . Newcastle, Cambridge Scholars, 2011.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1119285327" type="FULL">
      Jacoby, W. 
      <i>The Enlargement of the European Union and NATO: Ordering from the Menu in Central Europe</i>
      . Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 2004.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.098877" type="FULL">
      Jakubowicz, K. 
      <i>Rude Awakening: Social and Media Change in Central and Eastern Europe.</i>
       Cresskill, NJ, Hampton Press, 2007.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.81" type="FULL">
      Janos, A. C. 
      <i>East Central Europe in the Modern World: The Politics of the Borderlands from Pre- to Post-Communism</i>
      . Stanford, CA, Stanford University Press, 2000.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Jaritz, G. and Szende, K. 
      <i>Medieval East Central Europe in a Comparative Perspective: From Frontier Zones to Lands in Focus</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2016.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1090523204" type="FULL">
      Jeffries, I. 
      <i>The Countries of the Former Soviet Union at the Turn of the Twenty-first Century: The Baltic and European States in Transition.</i>
       New York, Routledge, 2004.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.82" type="FULL">
      Jelavich, B. 
      <i>History of the Balkans: Twentieth Century</i>
      . Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 1983.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.83" type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
               <i>History of the Balkans: Eighteenth and Nineteenth Centuries</i>
      . Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 1997 (first edn, 1983).
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Jensen, J. 
      <i>Memory Politics and Populism in Southeastern Europe</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2021.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.84" type="FULL">
      Jha, S. (Ed.). 
      <i>Ethnicity and Nation-building in Eastern Europe</i>
      . London, Sangam, 1998.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Jiglau, G., Sinea, A., Dubois, U. and Biermann, P. 
      <i>Perspectives on Energy Poverty in Post-Communist Europe</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2020.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1245344951" type="FULL">
      Jović, D. 
      <i>Yugoslavia: A State That Withered Away</i>
      . West Lafayette, IN, Purdue University Press, 2009.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Judson, P. 
      <i>The Habsburg Empire: A New History</i>
      . Cambridge, MA, Harvard University Press, 2016.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Kapidžić, D. and Stojarová, V. 
      <i>Illiberal Politics in Southeast Europe: How Ruling Elites Undermine Democracy</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2021.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.87" type="FULL">
      Kaplan, R. D. 
      <i>Balkan Ghosts: A Journey Through History</i>
      . New York, St Martin's Press, 1993.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Kasekamp, A. 
      <i>A History of the Baltic States</i>
      . London, Palgrave, 2017 (second edn).
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Kassabova, K. 
      <i>Border: A Journey to the Edge of Europe</i>
      . London, Granta, 2017.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
               <i>To the Lake: A Balkan Journey of War and Peace</i>
      . London, Granta, 2020.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Kaszeta, D. 
      <i>The Forest Brotherhood: Baltic Resistance against the Nazis and Soviets </i>
      . London, C. Hurst &amp; Co, 2023.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.86" type="FULL">
      Katzenstein, P. J. (Ed.). 
      <i>Mitteleuropa: Between Europe and Germany</i>
      . Providence, RI, Berghahn, 1997.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Kavaliauskas, T. 
      <i>Transformations in Central Europe between 1989 and 2012: Geopolitical, Cultural and Socioeconomic Shifts</i>
      . Lanham, MD, Lexington Books, 2012.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Keil, S. (Ed.). 
      <i>State-building in the Western Balkans: European Approaches to Democratization</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2014.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.88" type="FULL">
      Kemp, W. A. 
      <i>Nationalism and Communism in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union: A Basic Contradiction?</i>
       London, Macmillan, 1999.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.89" type="FULL">
      Kenny, P. 
      <i>A Carnival of Revolution: Central Europe 1989</i>
      . Princeton, NJ, Princeton University Press, 2002.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.90" type="FULL">
      Kenrick, D. (Ed.). 
      <i>The Gypsies during the Second World War No. 2: In the Shadow of the Swastika</i>
      . Hatfield, University of Hertfordshire Press, 1999.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Ker-Lindsay, J., Armakolas, I., Balfour, R. and Stratulat, C. 
      <i>The National Politics of EU Enlargement in the Western Balkans</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2019.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Kim, S. 
      <i>Discourse, Hegemony, and Populism in the Visegrád Four</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2023.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      King, R., and Oruc, N. 
      <i>Migration in the Western Balkans: What do we Know?</i>
       Abingdon, Routledge, 2020.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Kingsley, P. 
      <i>The New Odyssey: The Story of Europe's Refugee Crisis</i>
      . London, Guardian Faber Publishing, 2016.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.91" type="FULL">
      Kirschbaum, S. J. (Ed.). 
      <i>Central European History and the European Union: The Meaning of Europe</i>
      . New York, Palgrave Macmillan, 2007.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.92" type="FULL">
      Klarer, J. and Moldan, B. (Eds). 
      <i>The Environmental Challenge for Central European Economies in Transition</i>
      . Chichester, John Wiley, 1997.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.93" type="FULL">
      Klein, P. V., Helweg, A. W. and McCrea, B. P. (Eds). 
      <i>Struggling with the Communist Legacy: Studies of Yugoslavia, Romania, Poland and Czechoslovakia</i>
      . Boulder, CO, East European Monographs, 1998.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.94" type="FULL">
      Köhn, J. and Schiewer, U. (Eds). 
      <i>The Future of the Baltic Sea: Ecology, Economics, Administration and Teaching</i>
      . Marburg, Metropolis-Verlag, 1995.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.024913072013" type="FULL">
      Koinova, M. 
      <i>Ethnonationalist Conflict in Postcommunist States: Varieties of Governance in Bulgaria, Macedonia, and Kosovo</i>
      . Philadelphia, PA, University of Pennsylvania Press, 2013.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.95" type="FULL">
      Kola, P. 
      <i>The Search for Greater Albania</i>
      . London, C. Hurst and Co, 2003.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1119455014" type="FULL">
      Kolsto, P. 
      <i>Myths and Boundaries in South Eastern Europe</i>
      . London, C. Hurst and Co, 2005.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Korosteleva, E. 
      <i>The European Union and its Eastern Neighbours: Towards a More Ambitious Partnership?</i>
       Abingdon, Routledge, 2014.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1090523723" type="FULL">
      Kornai, J. and Rose-Ackerman, S. (Eds). 
      <i>Building a Trustworthy State in Post-socialist Transition.</i>
       New York, Palgrave Macmillan, 2004.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.030713072013" type="FULL">
      Kostadinova, T. 
      <i>Political Corruption in Eastern Europe: Politics after Communism</i>
      . Boulder, CO, Lynne Rienner Publishers, 2012.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.05" type="FULL">
      Kouki , H. and Romanos, E. (Eds). 
      <i>Protest Beyond Borders: Contentious Politics in Europe Since 1945</i>
      . New York, Berghahn Books, 2011.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.97" type="FULL">
      Kozminski, A. K. and Yip, G. S. (Eds). 
      <i>Strategies for Central and Eastern Europe</i>
      . London, Macmillan, 2000.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Kundera, M. 
      <i>A Kidnapped West: The Tragedy of Central Europe</i>
      . London, Faber &amp; Faber, 2023.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.98" type="FULL">
      Kupferberg, F. 
      <i>The Break-up of Communism in East Germany and Eastern Europe</i>
      . London, Macmillan, 1999.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.433322" type="FULL">
      Kuus, M. 
      <i>Geopolitics Reframed: Security and Identity in Europe’s Eastern Enlargement.</i>
       New York, Palgrave Macmillan, 2007.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Lampe, J. and Brunnbauer, U. 
      <i>The Routledge Handbook of Balkan and Southeast European History</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2020.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1119455848" type="FULL">
      Lampe, J. and Mazower, M. 
      <i>Ideologies and National Identities: The Case of Twentieth Century South-Eastern Europe</i>
      . Budapest, Central European University Press, 2003.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1203689086" type="FULL">
      Lane, D. and Myant, M. 
      <i>Varieties of Communism in Post-Communist Countries</i>
      . Basingstoke, Palgrave Macmillan, 2006.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Lane, T., Pabriks, A., Purs, A. and Smith, D. J. 
      <i>The Baltic States Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania</i>
      . London, Routledge, 2002.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.041713072013" type="FULL">
      Langenbacher, E., Niven, W. J., and Wittlinger, R. (Eds). 
      <i>Dynamics of Memory and Identity in Contemporary Europe</i>
      . New York, Berg­hahn Books, 2012.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.9876544" type="FULL">
      Lankina, T.&#160;V., Hudalla, A. and Wollmann, H. 
      <i>Local Governance in Central and Eastern Europe: Comparing Performance in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Russia</i>
      . Basingstoke, Palgrave Macmillan, 2007.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Leman, J. and Janssens, S. 
      <i>Human Trafficking and Migrant Smuggling in Southeast Europe and Russia: Criminal Entrepreneurship and Traditional Culture</i>
      . London, Palgrave Macmillan, 2015.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.99" type="FULL">
      Lendavi, P. 
      <i>Blacklisted: A Journalist’s Life in Central Europe</i>
      . London, I. B. Tauris, 1998.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.100" type="FULL">
      Levin, D. 
      <i>Baltic Jews under the Soviets 1940-1946</i>
      . Jerusalem, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, 1994.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.101" type="FULL">
      Lewis, D. W. P. and Lepesant, G. (Eds). 
      <i>What Security for Which Europe? Case Studies from the Baltic to the Black Sea</i>
      . New York, Peter Lang, 1999.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.102" type="FULL">
      Lieven, A. 
      <i>The Baltic Revolution: Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and the Path to Independence</i>
      . New Haven, CT, Yale University Press, 1993.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.103" type="FULL">
      Los, M. (Ed.). 
      <i>The Second Economy in Marxist States</i>
      . London, Macmillan, 1990.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Loukis, E., Macintosh, A. and Charalabidis, Y. (Eds). 
      <i>E-participation in Southern Europe and the Balkans: Issues of Democracy and Participation via Electronic Media</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2013.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.03" type="FULL">
      Louthan, H., Cohen, G. B. and Szabo, F. A. J. (Eds). 
      <i>Diversity and Dissent: Negotiating Religious Differences in Central Europe, 1500-1800</i>
      . Oxford, Berghahn Books, 2011.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Lynn, M. 
      <i>Bust</i>
      . Hoboken, NJ, Bloomberg Press, 2010.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      McMahon, P. 
      <i>The NGO Game: Post-Conflict Peacebuilding in the Balkans and Beyond</i>
      . Ithaca, NY, Cornell University Press, 2017.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1245320207" type="FULL">
      Madgearu, A. 
      <i>The Wars of the Balkan Peninsula: Their Medieval Origins</i>
      . Lanham, MD, Scarecrow Press, 2008.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.105" type="FULL">
      Magocsi, P. R. 
      <i>Historical Atlas of East Central Europe</i>
      . Seattle, WA, and London, University of Washington Press, 1993.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Marshall, T. 
      <i>Shadowplay: Behind the Lines and Under Fire: The Inside Story of Europe’s Last War</i>
      . London, Elliott &amp; Thompson, 2019.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Mason, D. 
      <i>A Concise History of Modern Europe: Liberty, Equality, Solidarity</i>
      . Lanham, MD, Rowman &amp; Littlefield, 2018.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Mayer, M., Thörn, C. and Thörn, H. 
      <i>Urban Uprisings: Challenging Neoliberal Urbanism in Europe</i>
      . London, Palgrave Macmillan, 2016.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.106" type="FULL">
      Mayhew, A. 
      <i>Recreating Europe: The European Union's Policy towards Central and Eastern Europe</i>
      . Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 1998.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.107" type="FULL">
      Mazower, M. 
      <i>The Balkans: A Short History</i>
      . London, Weidenfeld and Nicolson, 2000.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.108" type="FULL">
      Mendelsohn, E. 
      <i>The Jews of East Central Europe between the Two World Wars</i>
      . Bloomington, IN, Indiana University Press, 1983 and 1987.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Meštrović, S. 
      <i>Genocide After Emotion: Post-emotional Balkan War</i>
      . London, Routledge, 1995.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.110" type="FULL">
      Miall, H. (Ed.). 
      <i>Redefining Europe: New Patterns of Conflict and Co-operation</i>
      . London, Pinter, 1994.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.111" type="FULL">
      Michas, T. 
      <i>Unholy Alliance: Greece and Milošević's Serbia in the Nineties</i>
      . College Station, TX, A&amp;M University Press, 2002.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Mikanowski, J. 
      <i>Goodbye Eastern Europe: An Intimate History of a Divided Land</i>
      . London, Oneworld Publications, 2023.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.112" type="FULL">
      Milanovic, B. 
      <i>Income, Inequality, and Poverty during the Transition from Planned to Market Economy</i>
      . Washington, DC, World Bank, 1998.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Millard, F. 
      <i>Elections, Parties and Representation in Post-Communist Europe</i>
      . Basingstoke, Palgrave Macmillan, 2004.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.113" type="FULL">
      Miller, D. 
      <i>The Cold War: A Military History</i>
      . London, John Murray, 1998.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1373538586" type="FULL">
      Mink, G. and Neumayer, L. (Eds). 
      <i>History, Memory and Politics in Central and Eastern Europe: Memory Games</i>
      . Basingstoke, Palgrave Macmillan, 2013.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1245320275" type="FULL">
      Mishkova, D. (Ed.). 
      <i>We, The People: Politics of National Peculiarity in Southeastern Europe.</i>
       Budapest, Central European University Press, 2009.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.114" type="FULL">
      Misiunas, R. and Taagepera, R. 
      <i>The Baltic States: Years of Dependence, 1940-1990</i>
      . London, C. Hurst and Co, 1993.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.044713072013" type="FULL">
      Mithander, C., Sundholm, J., and Velicu, A. (Eds). 
      <i>European Cultural Memory Post-89</i>
      . New York, Rodopi, 2013.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Mochtak, M. 
      <i>Electoral Violence in the Western Balkans</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2017.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1373537730" type="FULL">
      Molnár, V. 
      <i>Building the State: Architecture, Politics and State Formation in Post-War Central Europe</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2013.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1119284403" type="FULL">
      Mudde, C. 
      <i>Racist Extremism in Central and Eastern Europe</i>
      . London, Routledge, 2004.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Mujanović, J. 
      <i>Hunger and Fury: The Crisis of Democracy in the Balkans</i>
      . London, Hurst, 2018.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Mulchinock, N. 
      <i>NATO and the Western Balkans: from Neutral Spectator to Proactive Peacemaker</i>
      . Basingstoke, Palgrave Macmillan, 2017.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.117" type="FULL">
      Müller, J., Beddies, C. H., Burgess, R. M., Kramarenko, V., and Mongardini, J. F. 
      <i>The Baltic Countries: Medium-term Fiscal Issues related to EU and NATO Accession</i>
      . Washington, DC, IMF, 2002.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.118" type="FULL">
      Müller, R.-D. and Ueberschär, G. R. 
      <i>Hitler's War in the East 1941-1945: a Critical Assessment</i>
      . Providence, RI, Berghahn, 1997.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1203688861" type="FULL">
      Myant, M. and Cox, T. (Eds). 
      <i>Reinventing Poland: Economic and Political Transformation and Evolving National Identity</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2008.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.124915072013" type="FULL">
      Mylonas, H. 
      <i>The Politics of Nation-Building: Making Co-Nationals, Refugees, and Minorities</i>
      . Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 2012.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.119" type="FULL">
      Nadeau, R. 
      <i>Stalin, Churchill and Roosevelt Divide Europe</i>
      . New York, Praeger, 1990.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.120" type="FULL">
      Naimark, N. M. 
      <i>Fires of Hatred: Ethnic Cleansing in Twentieth-Century Europe</i>
      . Cambridge, MA, and London, Harvard University Press, 2001.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Naylor, A. 
      <i>The Shadow in the East: Vladimir Putin and the New Baltic Front</i>
      . London, I. B. Tauris, 2023.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.121" type="FULL">
      Nelson, D. N. (Ed.). 
      <i>Local Politics in Communist Countries</i>
      . Lexington, KY, University Press of Kentucky, 1980.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.122" type="FULL">
      Nelson, J. M., Tilly, C. and Walker, L. (Eds). 
      <i>Transforming Post-Communist Political Economies</i>
      . Washington, DC, National Academy Press, 1997.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Nicholls, K. 
      <i>Mediating Policy: Greece, Ireland, and Portugal Before the Eurozone Crisis</i>
      . Abindgon, Routledge, 2017.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1185381289" type="FULL">
      Nixon, P. G. and Koutrakou, V. N. 
      <i>E-Government in Europe: Re-booting the State</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2007.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.123" type="FULL">
      Nonneman, G., Niblock, T. and Szajkowski, B. (Eds). 
      <i>Muslim Communities in the New Europe</i>
      . Reading, Garnet, 1996.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1216902060" type="FULL">
      Norwich, J. J. 
      <i>The Middle Sea</i>
      . Colchester, Vintage, 2007.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      O’Brennan, J. 
      <i>The EU and the Western Balkans: Stabilization and Europeanization through Enlargement</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2012.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1119454460" type="FULL">
      Oliver, I. 
      <i>War and Peace in the Balkans: The Diplomacy of Conflict in the Former Yugoslavia</i>
      . London, I. B. Tauris, 2005.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Orenstein, M. A., Bloom, S. and Lindstrom, N. (Eds). 
      <i>Transnational Actors in Central and East European Transitions</i>
      . Pittsburgh, PA, University of Pittsburgh Press, 2008.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Palalić, R., Dana L.-P., and Ramadani, V. (Eds). 
      <i>Entrepreneurship in Former Yugoslavia: Diversity, Institutional Constraints and Prospects</i>
      . New York, Springer, 2018.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Papadimitriou, D. (Ed.). 
      <i>The European Union and Central and Eastern Europe: Assessing Performance</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2019.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.124" type="FULL">
      Paquette, L. 
      <i>NATO and Eastern Europe after 2000: Strategic Interactions with Poland, the Czech Republic, Romania and Bulgaria</i>
      . New York, Nova Science, 2001.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Passarelli, G. 
      <i>The Presidentialisation of Political Parties in the Western Balkans</i>
      . London, Palgrave Macmillan, 2019.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.126" type="FULL">
      Pavlowitch, S. K. 
      <i>A History of the Balkans 1804-1945</i>
      . London, Longman, 1999.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.205.1059560211" type="FULL">
      Perica, V. 
      <i>Balkan Idols: Religion and Nationalism in Yugoslav States</i>
      . New York, Oxford University Press, 2002.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1215191560" type="FULL">
      Péter, L. and Rady, M. (Eds). 
      <i>Resistance, Rebellion and Revolution in Hungary and Central Europe: Commemorating 1956</i>
      . London, UCL School of Slavonic and East European Studies, 2008.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.125313072013" type="FULL">
      Peterson, J. W. 
      <i>Building a Framework of Security for Southeast Europe and the Black Sea Region: A Challenge Facing NATO</i>
      . Lewiston, Edwin Mellen Press, 2013.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Pettai, E.-C. and Pettai, V. 
      <i>Transitional Justice and Retrospective Justice in the Baltic States</i>
      . Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 2014.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.214.1059563292" type="FULL">
      Pettai, V. and Zielonka, J. (Eds). 
      <i>The Road to the European Union: Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia (Europe in Change)</i>
      . Manchester, Manchester University Press, 2003.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.126999" type="FULL">
      Pettifer, J. and Vickers, M. 
      <i>The Albanian Question: Reshaping the Balkans</i>
      . London, I. B. Tauris, 2006.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Pirro, A. 
      <i>The Populist Radical Right in Central and Eastern Europe: Ideology, Impact, and Electoral Performance</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2015.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Plakans, A. 
      <i>A Concise History of the Baltic States</i>
       (Cambridge Conscise Histories). Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 2011.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.127" type="FULL">
      Plasser, F. and Pribersky, A. (Eds). 
      <i>Political Culture in East Central Europe</i>
      . Aldershot, Ashgate, 1996.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Ploner, J. and Naef, P. (Eds). 
      <i>Tourism, Conflict and Contested Heritage in Former Yugoslavia</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2017.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.128" type="FULL">
      Pogany, I. 
      <i>Europe in Change: Righting Wrongs in Eastern Europe</i>
      . Manchester, Manchester University Press, 1997.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1119284915" type="FULL">
      Poole, P. A. 
      <i>Europe Unites: The EU's Eastern Enlargement</i>
      . Westport, CT, Greenwood Press, 2003.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.01" type="FULL">
      Porter, A. 
      <i>The Ghosts of Europe: Central Europe's Past and Uncertain Future</i>
      . New York, St. Martin's Press, 2011.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.129" type="FULL">
      Poulton, H. 
      <i>The Balkans: Minorities and States in Conflict</i>
      . London, Minority Rights Publications, 1994 (second edn).
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.130" type="FULL">
      Poulton, H. and Taji-Farouki, S. (Eds). 
      <i>Muslim Identity and the Balkan State</i>
      . London, Hurst (in association with the Islamic Council), 1997.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.131" type="FULL">
      Preston, C. 
      <i>Enlargement and Integration in the European Union</i>
      . London, Routledge, 1997.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1119285037" type="FULL">
      Pridham, G. 
      <i>Designing Democracy: EU Enlargement and Regime Change in Post-Communist Europe</i>
      . New York, Palgrave Macmillan, 2005.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.132" type="FULL">
      Pridham, G. and Lewis, P. G. (Eds). 
      <i>Stabilizing Fragile Democracies: Comparing New Party Systems in Southern and Eastern Europe</i>
      . London, Routledge, 1996.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.050313072013" type="FULL">
      Purs, A. 
      <i>Baltic Facades: Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania Since 1945</i>
      . London, Reaktion, 2012.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Pytlas, B. 
      <i>Radical Right Parties in Central and Eastern Europe: Mainstream Party Competition and Electoral Fortune</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2015.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Rady, M. 
      <i>The Middle Kingdoms: A New History of Central Europe</i>
      . London, Allen Lane, 2023.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Ragazzi, F. 
      <i>Governing Diasporas in International Relations: the Transnational Politics of Croatia and Former Yugoslavia.</i>
       Abingdon, Routledge, 2017.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.133" type="FULL">
      Rak, S., Pilkington, H. and Phizacklea, A. (Eds). 
      <i>Women in the Face of Change: The Soviet Union, Eastern Europe and China</i>
      . London, Routledge, 1992.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.135" type="FULL">
      Ramet, P. (Ed.). 
      <i>Eastern Christianity and Politics in the Twentieth Century</i>
      . Durham, NC, Duke University Press, 1988.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.136" type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
               <i>Catholicism and Politics in Communist Societies</i>
      . Durham, NC, Duke University Press, 1990.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1371" type="FULL">
      Ramet, S. P. 
      <i>Eastern Europe: Politics, Culture and Society since 1939</i>
      . Bloomington, IN, Indiana University Press, 1998.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.138" type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
               <i>The Radical Right in Central and Eastern Europe since 1989</i>
      . University Park, PA, Pennsylvania State University Press, 1999.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1245344834" type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
               <i>Serbia, Croatia and Slovenia at Peace and at War: Selected Writings, 1983-2007</i>
      . Berlin, Lit, 2008.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Rechel, B. 
      <i>Minority Rights in Central and Eastern Europe</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2010.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.139" type="FULL">
      Riff, Michael A. 
      <i>The Face of Survival: Jewish Life in Eastern Europe Past and Present</i>
      . London, Valentine Mitchell, 1992.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Romano, S. 
      <i>The Political Social Construction of Poverty: Central and Eastern European Countries in Transition</i>
      . Bristol, Policy Press, 2014.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1215077442" type="FULL">
      Roper, S.
      
       D. and Ikstens, J. (Eds). 
      <i>Public Finance and Post-Communist Party Development</i>
      . Burlington, VT, Ashgate, 2008.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.140" type="FULL">
      Rothschild, J. 
      <i>East Central Europe Between the Two World Wars</i>
      . Seattle, WA, University of Washington Press, 1977.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.141" type="FULL">
      Rothschild, J. and Wingfield, N. M. 
      <i>Return to Diversity</i>
      . New York, Oxford University Press USA, 2007 (fourth edn).
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1276617458" type="FULL">
      Runciman, S. 
      <i>The Fall of Constantinople, 1453</i>
      . Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 1991.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Rutar, S. (Ed.) 
      <i>Beyond the Balkans: Towards an Inclusive History of Southeastern Europe</i>
      . Zürich, Lit, 2014.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1373539158" type="FULL">
      Sabić, Z. and Drulák, P. 
      <i>Regional and International Relations of Central Europe</i>
      . Basingstoke, Palgrave Macmillan, 2012.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1276698736" type="FULL">
      Saideman, S. M. and Ayres, R. W. 
      <i>For Kin or Country: Xenophobia, Nationalism and War</i>
      . New York, Columbia University Press, 2008.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Samokhvalov, V. 
      <i>Russian-European Relations in the Balkans and Black Sea Region: Great Power Identity and the Idea of Europe</i>
      . London, Palgrave, 2017.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.050213072013" type="FULL">
      Sawyer, C. and Blitz, B. K. (Eds). 
      <i>Statelessness in the European Union: Displaced, Undocumented, Unwanted</i>
      . Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 2011.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.142" type="FULL">
      Saxonberg, S. 
      <i>The Fall: A Comparative Study of the End of Communism in Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Hungary and Poland</i>
      . Amsterdam, Harwood Academic, 2001.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.148" type="FULL">
      Schöpflin, G. 
      <i>Nations, Identity, Power: The New Politics of Europe</i>
      . London, Hurst, 2000.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.149" type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
               <i>Politics in Eastern Europe</i>
      . Oxford, Blackwell, 1993.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.143" type="FULL">
      Seaton-Watson, H. 
      <i>Eastern Europe 1918-1941</i>
      . Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 1945.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.145" type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
               <i>The East European Revolution</i>
      . Boulder, CO, Westview Press, 1985.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Sekulić, T. 
      <i>The European Union and the Paradox of Enlargement: The Complex Accession of the Western Balkans</i>
       (Palgrave Studies in European Political Sociology). London, Palgrave, 2020.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Selih, A., and Zavrsnik, Ales. 
      <i>Crime and Transition in Central and Eastern Europe</i>
      . New York, Springer, 2014.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1405070575" type="FULL">
      Semenova, E., Edinger, M. and Best, H. (Eds). 
      <i>Parliamentary Elites in Central and Eastern Europe: Recruitment and Representation</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2013.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Serwer, D. 
      <i>From War to Peace in the Balkans, the Middle East and Ukraine</i>
       (Palgrave Critical Studies in Post-Conflict Recovery). London, Palgrave Macmillan, 2019.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.150" type="FULL">
      Sfikas, T. D. and Williams, C. (Eds). 
      <i>Ethnicity and Nationalism in East Central Europe and the Balkans</i>
      . Aldershot, Ashgate, 1999.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.151" type="FULL">
      Shea, J. 
      <i>Macedonia and Greece: The Struggle to Define a New Balkan Nation</i>
      . Jefferson, NC, McFarland, 1997.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.152" type="FULL">
      Shoup, P. S. (Ed.) and Hoffman, G. W. 
      <i>Problems of Balkan Security: South-Eastern Europe in the 1990s</i>
      . Washington, DC, Wilson Centre Press, 1990.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.153" type="FULL">
      Smith, A. 
      <i>The Return to Europe: The Re-integration of Eastern Europe into the European Economy</i>
      . London, Macmillan, 2000.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.216.1059563710" type="FULL">
      Smith, D. G. et al. 
      <i>The Baltic States: Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania</i>
       (Postcommunist States and Nations). London, Routledge, 2002.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.154" type="FULL">
      Smith, G. (Ed.). 
      <i>The Baltic States: The National Self-Determination of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania</i>
      . London, Macmillan, 1996 (reprint).
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.155" type="FULL">
      Smith, J. and Teague, E. (Eds). 
      <i>Democracy in the New Europe: The Politics of Post-Communism</i>
      . London, Greycoat Press, 1999.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Snyder, T. 
      <i>Bloodlands</i>
      . Philadelphia, PA, Basic Books, 2010.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.09" type="FULL">
      Soós, K. A. 
      <i>Politics and Policies in Post-Communist Transition: Primary and Secondary Privatisation in Central Europe and the Former Soviet Union</i>
      . New York, Central European University Press, 2011.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Spendzharova, A. 
      <i>Regulating Banks in Central and Eastern Europe through Crisis and Boom</i>
      . Basingstoke, Palgrave Macmillan, 2014.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.156" type="FULL">
      Spinka, M. 
      <i>A History of Christianity in the Balkans: A Study of the Spread of Byzantine Culture among the Slavs</i>
      . Chicago, IL, American Society of Church History, 1933.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1245325779" type="FULL">
      Spirova, M. 
      <i>Political Parties in Post-Communist Societies: Formation, Persistence and Change.</i>
       New York, Palgrave, 2008.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1276695843" type="FULL">
      Stanculescu, M. S. and Stanovnik, T. (Eds). 
      <i>Activity, Incomes and Social Welfare: A Comparison across Four New EU Member States</i>
      . Farnham, Ashgate, 2009.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.28367352" type="FULL">
      Statiev, A. 
      <i>The Soviet Counterinsurgency in the Western Borderlands</i>
      . Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 2010.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.159" type="FULL">
      Stephenson, P. 
      <i>Byzantium's Balkan Frontier</i>
      . Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 2000.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Stojić, M. 
      <i>Party Responses to the EU in the Western Balkans: Transformation, Opposition or Defiance?</i>
       (Global Political Transitions). London, Palgrave Macmillan, 2018.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.160" type="FULL">
      Stokes, G. 
      <i>The Walls Came Tumbling Down: The Collapse of Communism in Eastern Europe</i>
      . Oxford, Oxford University Press, 1993.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.161" type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
               <i>From Stalinism to Pluralism</i>
      . New York, Oxford University Press, 1996 (second edn).
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Stoyanova, V. 
      <i>Ideology and Social Protests in Eastern Europe: Beyond the Transition's Liberal Consensus</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2018.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1119455409" type="FULL">
      Sugar, P. 
      <i>Southeastern Europe under Ottoman Rule 1354-1804</i>
      . Washington, DC, University of Washington Press, 1983.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.04" type="FULL">
      Suppan, A. and Graf, M. (Eds). 
      <i>From the Austrian Empire to Communist East Central Europe</i>
      . London, Transaction Publishers, 2011.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.162" type="FULL">
      Swain, G. and Swain, N. 
      <i>Eastern Europe since 1945</i>
      . Basingstoke, Palgrave, 1998 (second edn).
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.163" type="FULL">
      Swettenham, J. A. 
      <i>The Tragedy of the Baltic States</i>
      . London, Hollis and Carter, 1952.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.165" type="FULL">
      Tägil, S. 
      <i>Regions in the History of Central Europe</i>
      . London, Hurst, 1999.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.168" type="FULL">
      Thaden, E. C. (Ed.). 
      <i>Russification in the Baltic Provinces and Finland, 1855-1914</i>
      . Princeton, NJ, Princeton University Press, 1981.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="BIBL-ENTRY.1151945498" type="FULL">
      Thomas, N. 
      <i>The Yugoslav Wars: Slovenia and Croatia 1991-95.</i>
       Oxford, Osprey Publishing, 2006.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Tighe, C. 
      <i>Tradition, Literature and Politics in East-Central Europe</i>
       (Routledge Histories of Central and Eastern Europe). Abingdon, Routledge, 2020.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.170" type="FULL">
      Timmins, G. and Smith, M. (Eds). 
      <i>Uncertain Europe: Building a New European Security Order?</i>
       London, Routledge, 2001.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.08" type="FULL">
      Tismaneanu, V. (Ed.). 
      <i>Promises of 1968: Crisis, Illusion, and Utopia</i>
      . Budapest, New York, Central European University Press, 2011.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.171" type="FULL">
      Todorova, M. 
      <i>Imagining the Balkans</i>
      . New York and Oxford, Oxford University Press, 1997.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1090523466" type="FULL">
      Todorova, M. (Ed.). 
      <i>Balkan Identities: Nation and Memory.</i>
       New York, New York University Press, 2004.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Tomini, L. 
      <i>Democratizing Central and Eastern Europe: Successes and Failures of the European Union</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2015.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Trošt, T. and Mandić, D. 
      <i>Changing Youth Values in Southeast Europe: Beyond Ethnicity</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2017.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.173" type="FULL">
      Tsipis, K. (Ed.). 
      <i>Common Security Regimes in the Balkans</i>
      . Boulder, CO, East European Monographs, 1996.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Tulmets, E. 
      <i>East Central European Foreign Policy Identity in Perspective: Back to Europe and the EU’s Neighbourhood</i>
      . Basingstoke, Palgrave Macmillan, 2014.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.174" type="FULL">
      Turner, B. (Ed.). 
      <i>Central Europe Profiled: Essential Facts on Society, Politics and Business in Central Europe</i>
      . London, Macmillan, 2000.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.175" type="FULL">
      Turnock, D. 
      <i>Eastern Europe: An Historical Geography 1815-1945</i>
      . London, Routledge, 1989.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.176" type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
               <i>Eastern Europe: Economic and Political Geography</i>
      . London, Routledge, 1989.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.178" type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
               <i>The States of Eastern Europe</i>
       (2 vols). London, Routledge, 1999.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.179" type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
               <i>East Central Europe and the Former Soviet Union</i>
      . London, Routledge, 2001.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.180" type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
               <i>The Human Geography of Central and Eastern Europe</i>
      . London, Routledge, 2002.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.181" type="FULL">
      Turnock, D. and Carter, F. W. (Eds). 
      <i>The States of Eastern Europe, Vol. 1: North-Eastern Europe</i>
      . Aldershot, Ashgate, 1999.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.182" type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
               <i>The States of Eastern Europe, Vol. 2: South-Eastern Europe</i>
      . Aldershot, Ashgate, 1999.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Tyszkiewicz, J. 
      <i>Human Rights and Political Dissent in Central Europe Between the Helsinki Accords and the Fall of the Berlin Wall</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2021.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.184" type="FULL">
      Vago, B. and Mosse, G. (Eds). 
      <i>Jews and Non-Jews in Eastern Europe, 1918-1945</i>
      . New York, John Wiley, 1974.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.185" type="FULL">
      Vaknin, S. 
      <i>After the Rain: How the West Lost the East</i>
      . Prague, Narcissus, 2000.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Vanaga, N., and Rostoks, T. 
      <i>Deterring Russia in Europe: Defence Strategies for Neighbouring States</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2020.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.186" type="FULL">
      Van Brabant, J. M. 
      <i>The Transformation of Eastern Europe: Joining the European Integration Movement</i>
      . New York, Nova Science, 1995.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.189" type="FULL">
      Van Oudenaren, J. 
      <i>Uniting Europe: European Integration and the Post-Cold War World</i>
      . Lanham, MD, Rowman and Littlefield, 2000.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Velikonja, M. 
      <i>Post-Socialist Political Graffiti in the Balkans and Central Europe</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2019.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Verney, S. (Ed.). 
      <i>Euroscepticism in Southern Europe</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2011.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.190" type="FULL">
      Vertovec, S., and Peach, C. (Eds). 
      <i>Islam in Europe: The Politics of Religion and Community</i>
      . Basingstoke, Macmillan, 1997.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Voiculescu, C. 
      <i>European Social Integration and the Roma: Questioning Neoliberal Governmentality</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2016.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.191" type="FULL">
      Volkan, V. D. and Itzkowitz, N. 
      <i>Turks and Greeks: Neighbours in Conflict</i>
      . Huntingdon, Eothen Press, 1994.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.195" type="FULL">
      Wegren, S. K. 
      <i>Land Reform in the Former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe</i>
      . London, Routledge, 1998.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.196" type="FULL">
      West, R. 
      <i>Black Lamb and Grey Falcon: A Journey Through Yugoslavia</i>
      . London, Macmillan, 1941.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.197" type="FULL">
      White, G. W. 
      <i>Nationalism and Territory: Constructing Group Identity in South-Eastern Europe</i>
      . Lanham, MD, Rowman and Littlefield, 2000.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.200" type="FULL">
      Winchester, S. 
      <i>The Fracture Zone: A Return to the Balkans</i>
      . London, Penguin, 1999.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Wolchik, S. and Curry, J. (Eds). 
      <i>Central and East European Politics: From Communism to Democracy</i>
      . Lanham, MD, Rowman and Littlefield, 2018 (third edn).
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.030013072013" type="FULL">
      Yavuz, M. H. and Blumi, I. 
      <i>War and Nationalism: The Balkan Wars, 1912-1913, and their Sociopolitical Implications</i>
      . Salt Lake City, UT, University of Utah Press, 2013.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry id="CASEE.BOOKS.1373538090" type="FULL">
      Yoder, J. 
      <i>Crafting Democracy: Regional Politics in Post-Communist Europe</i>
      . Lanham, MD, Rowman and Littlefield, 2013.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Zametica, J. 
      <i>Folly and Malice: The Habsburg Empire, the Balkans and the Start of World War One</i>
      . London, Shepheard-Walwyn, 2017.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Žanić, I. 
      <i>Flag on the Mountain: A Political Anthropology of the War in Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina 1990-1995.</i>
       London, Saqi, 2007.
    </bibl-entry>
          <bibl-entry type="FULL">
      Zavrnik, A. 
      <i>Surveillance in Central and Eastern Europe: From Dictatorship of the Communist Party to Dictate of the Free Market</i>
      . Abingdon, Routledge, 2016.
    </bibl-entry>
     </bibl-list>
</bibl-section>