<?xml version="1.0"?>
<intro-survey id="BG.IS" id-root="bg.is" iso="bg" original-filename="bgrinsu.rtf" usage="ewyb"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <country-head>Bulgaria</country-head>
     <alt-heading usage="casee">Bulgaria</alt-heading>
     <is-section id="BG.IS.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
          <heading>Introductory Survey</heading>
          <is-section id="BG.IS.2" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Location, Climate, Language, Religion, Flag, Capital</heading>
               <p id="BG.IS.3">The Republic of Bulgaria lies in the eastern Balkans, in South-Eastern Europe. It is bounded by Romania to the north, by Türkiye (formerly known as Turkey) and Greece to the south, by Serbia to the west and by North Macedonia to the south-west. The country has an eastern coastline on the Black Sea. There are sharp contrasts between winter and summer: temperatures in the capital, Sofia, are generally between −5°C (23°F) and 28°C (82°F). The official language is Bul­garian, a Southern Slavonic language, written in the Cyrillic alphabet. Minority languages include Turkish and Macedonian. The majority of the population is Christian; most are members of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, although there is a substantial minority of Muslims. The national flag (proportions 2 by 3) has three equal horizontal stripes, of white, green and red.</p>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="BG.IS.4" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Contemporary Political History</heading>
               <is-section id="BG.IS.987767852" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Historical Context</heading>
                    <p id="BG.IS.5">After almost 500 years of Ottoman rule, Bulgaria declared itself an independent kingdom in 1908. In both the First and Second World Wars Bulgaria was allied with Germany. In September 1942 the Fatherland Front, a newly formed left-wing alliance, seized power, with help from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR), and installed a Government, led by Kimon Georgiev. Soviet troops occupied Bulgaria in 1944. In September 1946 the monarchy was abolished following a popular referendum, and a republic was proclaimed. The first post-war elections were held in October, when the Fatherland Front won 364 seats—277 of which were held by the Balgarska Komunisticheska Partiya (BKP—Bulgarian Communist Party)—in the 465-member National Assembly. In No­vember Georgi Dimitrov, the First Secretary of the BKP, became Chairman of the Council of Ministers (Prime Minister) in a Government formed by the Fatherland Front. All opposition parties were abolished and a new Constitution was adopted in December 1947, when Bulgaria was designated a People’s Republic. Dimitrov was replaced as Prime Minister by Vasil Kolarov in March 1949, but remained leader of the BKP until his death in July. New party leader Vulko Chervenkov became Prime Minister in February 1950.</p>
                    <p id="BG.IS.6">Todor Zhivkov succeeded Chervenkov as leader of the BKP in 1954, although Chervenkov remained Prime Minister until 1956, when he was replaced by Anton Yugov. Following an ideological struggle within the BKP, Zhivkov was Prime Minister from 1962 until 1971, when, after the adoption of a new Constitution, he became the first President of the newly formed State Council. In June 1981 a new Government was formed: Grisha Filipov, a member of the BKP’s Political Bureau, suc­ceeded Stanko Todorov, who had been Prime Minister since 1971. In March 1986 Filipov was replaced by Georgi Atanasov, a former Vice-President of the State Council.</p>
                    <p id="BG.IS.7">In local elections in March 1988 the nomination of candidates other than those endorsed by the BKP was permitted. On 10 November 1989 Zhivkov was removed from his post as General Secretary (leader) of the BKP and from the Political Bureau. He was replaced as General Secretary by Petar Mladenov, Minister of Foreign Affairs since 1971, who also became President of the State Council. Following an investigation into corruption during Zhivkov’s tenure, in January 1994 he was sentenced to seven years’ imprisonment (in February 1996 an appeal was upheld).</p>
               </is-section>
               <is-section id="BG.IS.12645106611" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Domestic Political Affairs</heading>
                    <p id="BG.IS.9">In December 1989 Angel Dimitrov became leader of the Balgarski Zemedelski Naroden Sayuz (BZNS—Bulgarian Agrarian People’s Union, the sole legal political party apart from the BKP, with which it was originally allied). The BZNS was reconstituted as an inde­pendent opposition party. In mid-December the BKP proposed constitutional amendments and the adoption of legislation to permit free elections to be held. In January 1990 the National Assembly voted to remove from the Constitution the article guaranteeing the BKP’s dominant role in society and approved legislation permitting citizens to form independent groups and to stage demonstrations. Discussions on political and economic reforms commenced between the BKP, the BZNS and the Sayuz na Demokratichnite Sili (SDS—Union of Democratic Forces), which comprised several dissident and independent groups. Nevertheless, the new Council of Ministers appointed on 8 February was wholly composed of representatives of the BKP, chaired by Andrei Lukanov.</p>
                    <p id="BG.IS.11">In February 1990 some 200,000 SDS supporters protested in Sofia to demand the end of BKP rule. Following discussions in March, it was agreed that Mladenov was to be re-elected as President, pending elections to a Grand National Assembly, which would be empowered to approve a new constitution, and that the State Council would be dissolved. In April the National Assembly adopted an electoral law and legislation that guaranteed the right to form political parties. Meanwhile, the BKP was reconstituted as the Balgarska Sotsialisticheska Partiya (BSP—Bulgarian So­cialist Party).</p>
                    <p id="BG.IS.12">Elections to a 400-member Grand National Assembly were held in June 1990. The BSP won 211 seats, while the SDS obtained 144. The Dvizhenie za Prava i Svobodi (DPS—Movement for Rights and Freedoms), representing the Muslim minority (principally ethnic Turks), secured 23 seats. The BZNS won 16 seats. In July Mladenov resigned as President, following protests. He was replaced by Zhelyu Zhelev, the Chairman of the SDS. Zhelev was succeeded as SDS Chairman by Petar Beron and, from December, by Filip Dimitrov.</p>
                    <p id="BG.IS.14">In November 1990 some 16 BSP delegates to the Grand National Assembly formed a separate group, ending the party’s absolute majority. Following a general strike prompted by increased economic hardship, Lukanov’s Government resigned. A Government of national consensus’ was formed in December, comprising the BSP, the SDS and the BZNS, chaired by Dimitar Popov, a non-partisan lawyer.</p>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Post-communist Transition</heading>
                         <p id="BG.IS.15">Meanwhile, in November 1990 the Grand National Assembly voted to rename the country the Republic of Bulgaria and to remove from the national flag the state emblem, which included communist symbols. The Grand National Assembly adopted a new Constitution in July 1991, and subsequently voted to dissolve itself. The Constitution stipulated a five-year residency qualification for presidential candidates, effectively disqualifying the candidacy of Simeon Sakskoburggotski (Saxe-Coburg Gotha—`Simeon II’), the claimant to the Bulgarian throne. At elections to a new, 240-seat National Assembly on 13 October the SDS obtained 110 seats, defeating an alliance led by the BSP, which won 106 seats; the DPS secured 24. A Council of Ministers, headed by SDS leader Dimitrov, was announced in November. A direct presidential election was held in January 1992; Zhelev was re-elected for a five-year term, receiving 53% of the votes cast in the second round.</p>
                         <p id="BG.IS.17">In April 1992 the Government adopted legislation restoring ownership of land and property that had been transferred to the state during 1947-62. In October 1992 Dimitrov’s Government lost a parliamentary motion of confidence, and in December the DPS nominated Lyuben Berov, hitherto an economic adviser to Zhelev, as Prime Minister. The SDS accused Berov of collab­orating with the former communist regime and organized a rally to protest against his candidacy. Nevertheless, he was approved as Prime Minister on 30 December, heading a Council of Ministers principally composed of technocrats. Demonstrations were staged by the SDS in June 1993, accusing Zhelev of attempting to restore communism, and demanding immediate elections. Berov’s Government resigned in September 1994, and in October Zhelev dissolved the National Assembly.</p>
                         <p id="BG.IS.21">At the general election held on 18 December 1994 the BSP (in alliance with two smaller parties) obtained a majority in the National Assembly, with 125 seats; the SDS won 69 seats. A new Government, headed by the Chairman of the BSP, Zhan Videnov, was appointed in January 1995. In the second round of the presidential election on 3 November 1996, Petar Stoyanov, a lawyer and senior member of the SDS, was elected with 59.7% of the votes. In December the SDS staged demonstrations demanding early legislative elections and the resignation of the Government. On 21 December Videnov tendered his resignation as Prime Minister and as Chairman of the BSP; Georgi Parvanov, a supporter of Videnov, subsequently assumed the latter role. The SDS, however, intensified its campaign of demonstrations.</p>
                         <p id="BG.IS.54575768">On 19 January 1997 Stoyanov was inaugurated as President. In accordance with recommendations by the consultative National Security Council, in February he nominated the Mayor of Sofia, Stefan Sofianski, to head an interim Council of Ministers; the National Assembly was dissolved on 19 February and legislative elections were scheduled. At the early elections to the National Assembly conducted on 19 April, the SDS secured 137 seats, while a BSP-led alliance obtained 58 seats. In May the National Assembly confirmed the SDS Chairman, Ivan Kostov, as Prime Minister.</p>
                         <p id="BG.IS.32">In advance of presidential and legislative elections, the former monarch Simeon Sakskoburggotski returned to Bulgaria in April 2001, but was prevented from registering his new Natsionalno Dvizhenie (National Movement) as a party. However, the Movement was permitted to form an electoral alliance with two smaller, registered parties as the Natsionalno Dvizhenie Simeon Vtori (NDSV—National Movement Simeon II). In the legislative elections on 17 June, the NDSV obtained 120 seats, while the SDS took 51. Sakskoburggotski was sworn in as Prime Minister on 24 July. The Council of Ministers, which included two representatives of both the DPS and the BSP, was approved by the National Assembly on the same day. Kostov subsequently resigned his leadership of the SDS. In April 2002 the NDSV was registered as a political party, headed by Sakskoburggotski.</p>
                         <p id="BG.IS.34">Meanwhile, in the second round of a presidential election held on 18 November 2001 Parvanov, representing a BSP-led alliance, the Koalitsiya za Balgariya (KzB—Coalition for Bulgaria), was elected with 54.1% of the votes cast, defeating the incumbent, Stoyanov; the rate of voter participation was 54.6%. Parvanov took office in January 2002. In May 2004 former SDS Chairman Kostov founded a breakaway party, Demokrati za silna Balgariya (DSB—Democrats for a Strong Bulgaria).</p>
                         <p id="BG.IS.170220051659">In February 2005 the Prime Minister reorganized the Council of Ministers. At elections to the National Assembly, held on 25 June, the BSP-led KzB secured 82 of the 240 seats in the legislature and 34.2% of the votes cast; the NDSV received 53 seats and 22.1% of the votes, and the DPS secured 34 seats and 14.2% of the votes. A newly formed coalition of extreme right-wing and nationalist parties, the Natsionalen Sayuz Ataka (Attack National Union—Attack, subsequently the Attack Party—Partiya Ataka), secured 21 seats (8.8% of the votes). The rate of participation by the electorate was 55.7%. On 16 August the National Assembly approved a coalition Government comprising members of the BSP, the NDSV and the DPS, and led by BSP leader Sergei Stanishev. In October Stoyanov was elected leader of the SDS. The incumbent, Parvanov, won 76.0% of the votes in a second round of presidential voting on 29 October 2006. He was inaugurated on 22 January 2007.</p>
                         <p>
            Following Bulgaria’s accession to the 
            <xr pageref="Y" ref="WB02047.IO.TXT">European Union (EU)</xr>
             on 1 January 2007 (see 
            <i>Foreign Affairs</i>
            ), elections to the European Parliament were held in May. The SDS and the DSB failed to secure representation, prompting the resignations of Stoyanov and Kostov as party leaders. The BSP and Grazhdani za Evropeysko Razvitie na Balgariya (GERB—Citizens for European Development of Bulgaria), a new, centre-right opposition party unofficially headed by the Mayor of Sofia, Boyko Borisov, each secured five of the 18 available seats.
          </p>
                         <p>At elections to the European Parliament held on 7 June 2009, GERB secured five of the 17 seats allocated to Bulgaria, while the BSP-led Coalition for Bulgaria took four and the DPS three.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>GERB Attains Power</heading>
                         <p>In the general election held on 5 July 2009, GERB won 39.7% of the votes cast and 116 of the 240 seats; the Coalition for Bulgaria received 17.7% of the votes and 40 seats, and the DPS 14.4% of the votes and 38 seats. Ataka, the SK and the centre-right Red, Zakonnost i Spravedlivost (RZS—Order, Law and Justice party) secured 21, 15 and 10 seats, respectively. At 60.9%, the rate of voter participation was higher than at the previous elections. A minority GERB Government, headed by Borisov and supported by Ataka, the SK and the RZS, was approved by the legislature on 27 July. (In February 2010 a recount of votes at Turkish polling stations, after a ruling by the Constitutional Court, increased the number of parliamentary seats held by GERB to 117, and reduced the representation of the DPS to 37.) Borisov was elected Chairman of GERB in January 2010.</p>
                         <p>
            In November 2010 Parvanov launched a new movement, Alternativa za Balgarsko Vazrazhdane (ABV—the Alternative for Bulgarian Revival), which included former members of the BSP. In January 2011 illicitly obtained recordings released in the media appeared to implicate members of the Government, including Borisov, in corrupt practices. However, the Government, which denied the authenticity of the recordings, survived two votes of no confidence in the National Assembly. In February a bomb exploded outside the offices of opposition newspaper 
            <i>Galeria</i>
            , which had published transcripts of the recordings. The Director of the State Agency for National Security subsequently tendered his resignation.
          </p>
                         <p>In the first round of the presidential election held on 23 October 2011 Rosen Plevneliev of GERB (previously Minister of Regional Development and Public Works) secured 40.1% of the votes cast, while BSP candidate Ivaylo Kalfin received 29.0%. At a second round of voting on 30 October, Plev­neliev was elected to the presidency with 52.6% of the votes cast. The rate of participation by the electorate was estimated at 48.3%. Plevneliev was inaugurated on 22 January 2012.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>The 2013 and 2014 Legislative Elections</heading>
                         <p>On 20 February 2013 Borisov announced the resignation of his Government, after violent protests in the capital against economic hardship. Plevneliev appointed an interim administration, led by Marin Raykov, on 13 March, pending early legislative elections. At the elections on 12 May GERB was the highest-placed party, with 30.6% of the votes and 97 seats; the BSP-led Coalition for Bulgaria obtained 26.6% of the votes and 84 seats, the DPS secured 11.3% and 36 seats, and Ataka 7.3% and 23 seats. On 29 May a new Government, largely comprising members of the BSP and the DPS, took office, under the leadership of Plamen Oresharski, a former Minister of Finance. On 23-24 July protesters blockaded the National Assembly following the approval of the draft budget; some 20 people were injured in clashes between protesters and police. Nevertheless, in February 2014 the Government survived a vote of no confidence in the National Assembly.</p>
                         <p>In elections to the European Parliament on 25 May 2014 GERB attracted 30.4% of the votes and six of the 17 seats allocated to Bulgaria, the BSP won 18.9% of the votes and four seats, and the DPS obtained 17.3% and four seats. A four-party coalition led by Balgariya bez Tsenzura (BBTs—Bulgaria Without Censorship), a new, populist party established by television journalist Nikolay Barekov and VMRO—Balgarsko Natsionalno Dvizhenie (VMRO—BND, IMRO—Bulgarian National Movement) obtained 10.7% and two seats, while the five-party Reformatorski Bloc (Reformist Bloc) coalition, led by the Balgariya na Grazhdanite (BG—Bulgaria of Citizens) movement of former European Commissioner Meglena Kuneva, obtained 6.5% and one seat. The rate of participation was 35.5%.</p>
                         <p>The Government survived a further vote of no confidence in May 2014. However, on 29 June President Plevneliev scheduled early legislative elections for October, after threats to government stability following the elections to the European Parliament. Oresharski announced the resignation of his Government on 23 July, and an interim Government, headed by an independent, Georgi Bliznashki, took office on 6 August.</p>
                         <p>At the elections on 5 October 2014, Borisov’s GERB was first placed, with some 32.7% of the votes and 84 of the 240 seats in the National Assembly. A BSP-led coalition, BSP-Lyava Balgariya (BSP-Left Bulgaria—under the leadership of Mihail Mikov, who had replaced Stanishev as BSP Chairman in July), received 15.4% of the votes and 39 seats, the DPS 14.8% of the votes and 38 seats, and the Reformatorski Blok (RB—Reform Bloc), an electoral coalition including BG, the DSB and the SDS, 8.9% of the votes and 23 seats. The Patryotychen Front (PF—Patriotic Front—comprising VMRO—BND and the Natsionalen Front za Spasenie na Bulgaria—NFSB—National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria) obtained 19 seats, ahead of BBTs, with 15 seats, and Ataka and the ABV, which each obtained 11 seats. The rate of participation was 51%. A new Government, again led by Borisov, and comprising representatives of GERB, the parties of the RB, and the ABV, was approved by the National Assembly on 7 November.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Early Legislative Elections</heading>
                         <p>A reform to strengthen the independence of the judiciary (in accordance with EU requirements) was adopted by the National Assembly on 9 December 2015; however, parties apart from those of the RB opposed curbs on the powers of the Prosecutor-General. Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov resigned immediately afterwards.</p>
                         <p>On 21 April 2016 the National Assembly approved at a second reading amendments to the electoral code, which principally provided for the introduction of mandatory voting, and largely restricted polling stations abroad to Bulgarian diplomatic missions. The amendments prompted protests, both domestically and abroad, and on 10 May the ABV announced its withdrawal from its partnership agreement with the Government, resulting in the resignation of deputy premier Ivaylo Kalfin. The changes to the electoral code were vetoed by Plevneliev, but on 18 May the National Assembly overturned the veto and the amendments entered into force later that month.</p>
                         <p>At the first round of a presidential election on 6 November 2016, former air force commander Rumen Radev, contesting the poll as an independent candidate with the support of the BSP, was first-placed, with 25.4% of the votes cast, followed by parliamentary President Tsetska Tsacheva of GERB, with 22.0%. In a second round of voting on 13 November Radev received 59.4% of the votes cast, while Tsacheva obtained 36.2%. In response to the defeat of the GERB candidate, on 14 November Borisov tendered the resignation of his Government, which was approved by the National Assembly two days later. Radev was inaugurated on 22 January 2017.</p>
                         <p>On 24 January 2017 Radev scheduled pre-term legislative elections for 26 March (in accordance with demands by GERB and the BSP), and a new, interim Government, headed by former parliamentary President Ognian Gerdzhikov, was established three days later. At the elections in March, Borisov’s GERB was first-placed, with 33.5% of the votes cast and 95 seats, although the BSP (heading an electoral alliance), with 27.9% of the votes, increased its representation to 80 seats. The right-wing Obedineni Patrioti (OP—United Patriots) coalition, comprising VMRO—BND, the NFSB and Ataka, obtained 9.3% of the votes and 27 seats, closely followed by the DPS, with 9.2% and 26 seats; populist party Volya (Will), with 4.3%, took the remaining 12 seats. The rate of participation by the electorate was 54.1%. After a coalition agreement was signed between GERB and the OP, a new Government headed by Borisov, and comprising representatives of GERB, the OP’s constituent parties and independents (with the support of Volya), received a parliamentary vote of confidence on 4 May. In January 2018 Borisov’s Government survived a parliamentary vote of no confidence brought by the BSP over the alleged lack of progress in combating corruption.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="BG.IS.15468518261" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Popular Protests</heading>
                         <p>In August 2018 a road accident near the north-western town of Svoge, in which 17 people were killed, precipitated protests against alleged corrupt practices in state road construction. At the demand of Prime Minister Borisov, the resignations of the ministers responsible, respectively, for the interior, regional development and transport were tendered at the end of August. Mladen Marinov, an independent, subsequently became Minister of the Interior.</p>
                         <p>In early 2018 a prominent television journalist, Viktoria Marinova, was murdered in the northern town of Ruse, after reporting on allegations of the misuse of EU funds. Large memorial vigils were held in Sofia and Ruse, and some subsequently developed into anti-corruption protests. In April 2019 a man was sentenced to 30 years’ imprisonment for Marinova’s murder, and prosecutors stated that there was no evidence that it had been motivated by her work.</p>
                         <p>Later in October 2018 protests were staged in central Sofia to demand the resignation of the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy, NFSB leader Valeri Simeonov, after he had denigrated a campaign by mothers of disabled children in support of new legislation to improve the welfare system. Simeonov tendered his resignation on 16 November, and was replaced by his chief of staff, Mariyana Nikolova of the OP.</p>
                         <p>Elections to the European Parliament were held in Bulgaria on 26 May 2019, in which GERB secured 31.1% of the votes cast and six of the country’s 17 allocated seats, the BSP obtained 24.3% of the votes and five seats, the DPS 16.6% and three seats and VMRO—BND 7.4% and two seats. A grouping of the DSB and two other parties, Demokratichna Balgariya (DB—Democratic Bulgaria), won 6.1% of the votes and the remaining seat. A voter turnout of 32.6% was recorded.</p>
                         <p>Meanwhile, severe water shortages in the town of Pernik, some 40 km west of Sofia, which resulted in regional supply restrictions from November 2019, prompted a series of anti-Government protests and allegations of malpractice. On 10 January 2020 Minister of the Environment and Water Neno Dimov submitted his resignation, after he was charged with mismanagement in relation to a criminal investigation into the water crisis. A motion of no confidence brought by the BSP against the Government, owing to its perceived failings in water policy, was defeated in the National Assembly on 29 January. Nevertheless, in a televised address on 4 February, Radev formally withdrew his confidence in the Government.</p>
                         <p>In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, on 13 March 2020 the National Assembly voted to declare a national state of emergency, introducing wide-ranging containment measures. After President Radev vetoed some of the new provisions, including the introduction of large penalties for spreading `false information’ about an epidemic, the emergency legislation was amended. The state of emergency was lifted on 14 May, and restrictive measures began to be eased; nevertheless, an emergency epidemic situation was declared, and subsequently extended.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Anti-Government Campaign</heading>
                         <p>On 9 July 2020 it was announced that two presidential advisers had been arrested on suspicion of corrupt practices, following a raid of the presidential administration building by investigators from the Prosecutor’s Office. The operation, which was widely perceived as an assault against the presidential institution, precipitated anti-corruption protests in central Sofia on the same day, with participants demanding the resignations of Borisov’s Government and of Prosecutor-General Ivan Geshev. However, Borisov and Geshev refused to resign, and GERB urged its supporters to stage counter-demonstrations. On 15 July, when a mass protest in Sofia escalated into violence, the BSP proposed a parliamentary motion of no confidence in the Government; Borisov offered the resignations of Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov, Minister of the Interior Marinov and Minister of the Economy Emil Karanikolov as a concession to the protesters, which was rejected by Radev. On 21 July the motion of no confidence was defeated by the ruling majority in the National Assembly. A cabinet reorganization was effected two days later; among other changes, Goranov was replaced by the hitherto Minister of Health, Kiril Ananiev, Marinov by a senior police official, Hristo Terziyski, and Karanikolov by his hitherto deputy, Lachezar Borisov. However, the protesters, together with Radev, continued to demand the resignation of the entire Government and early elections, and large anti-Government rallies spread across major cities nationwide. From the end of July activists established encampments on principal roads in Sofia and other cities. Amid the worsening political crisis, on 26 August Minister of Justice Danail Kirilov announced his resignation, which was followed the next day by the resignation of the Central Election Commission head. Kirilov was replaced by his deputy, Desislava Ahladova.</p>
                         <p>On 2 September 2020, as the National Assembly reconvened, protesters attempted to storm the parliamentary building, resulting in violent clashes with police, in which at least 38 people were injured. Both Radev and protest organizers subsequently claimed that subversive elements had caused the violence. Protests continued, but at the beginning of November the organizers declared a halt to the daily demonstrations, owing to a resurgence in COVID-19 cases.</p>
                         <p>Elections to the National Assembly, conducted on 4 April 2021, reflected a substantial decline in support for the longstanding political parties: GERB, in alliance with the SDS, obtained 25.8% of the votes cast and 75 seats (representing a loss of 20 seats), followed by a new populist party, Ima Takav Narod (ITN—There Is Such A People—led by prominent television presenter Slavi Trifonov), with 17.4% and 51 seats, while the BSP za Balgariya (BSP for Bulgaria) coalition was placed third, with 14.8% and 43 seats. A voter participation rate of 49.1% was recorded.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="BG.IS.16418440951" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Repeated Elections</heading>
                         <p>Following the failure of efforts to form a government, on 12 May 2021 President Radev dissolved the National Assembly and scheduled new elections for July; Radev appointed his hitherto defence adviser and former deputy premier, Stefan Yanev, as Prime Minister of an interim Government. The repeated elections on 11 July resulted in a narrow victory for Trifonov’s ITN, which obtained 24.1% of the votes cast and 65 seats. The GERB-SDS alliance secured 23.5% of the votes and 63 seats. A reduced voter turnout of 40.4% was recorded. However, efforts by ITN to form a minority administration with the support of other parliamentary parties proved unsuccessful. After GERB-SDS and the BSP also returned mandates to form a government, on 11 September Radev scheduled further legislative elections, to be held concurrently with the first round of the presidential election on 14 November.</p>
                         <p>At the elections to the National Assembly on 14 November 2021, a new, centrist anti-corruption alliance, Prodalzhavame Promyanata (PP—We Continue the Change), led by two ministers in the outgoing interim Government, Kiril Petkov and Asen Vassilev, was first-placed, with 25.7% of the votes cast and 67 seats. The GERB-SDS alliance took 22.7% of the votes and 59 seats, the DPS 13.0% and 34 seats, and BSP za Balgariya 10.2% and 26 seats; the share obtained by ITN fell to 9.5% and 25 seats, and the DB alliance won 6.4% and 16 seats, while a nationalist party, Vazrazhdane (Revival), received 4.9% and 13 seats. Official voter turnout declined further to 38.4%. In the concurrent first round of the presidential election Radev (who received the support of PP and ITN) secured 49.4% of the votes cast, while the second-placed candidate, university professor Anastas Gerdzhikov, an independent supported by the GERB-SDS alliance, received 22.8%. A run-off round was conducted on 21 November, at which Radev was re-elected with 66.7% of the votes cast. The official voter turnout was 38.6% in the first round and 33.7% in the second.</p>
                         <p>Following inter-party negotiations, on 10 December 2021 PP, the BSP, ITN and DB announced that they had reached agreement on the formation of a ruling coalition, and a Government under the premiership of Petkov and comprising representatives of all four parties was approved by the National Assembly three days later. Vassilev became Deputy Prime Minister for EU Funds and Minister of Finance, while former interim premier Yanev received the defence portfolio.</p>
                         <p>On 24 February 2022 the National Assembly approved a declaration condemning the Russian Federation’s military invasion of Ukraine on the same day; the nationalist Vazrazhdane party voted against the resolution, while the BSP abstained from voting on a clause supporting the imposition of international sanctions against Russia. At the beginning of March Minister of Defence Yanev was removed from his post, after he repeatedly referred to the invasion as a `special operation’, the official term used by Russian President Vladimir Putin. He was replaced by Dragomir Zakov, hitherto Bulgaria’s Permanent Representative to NATO. Large rallies in support of Ukraine took place in major cities in March.</p>
                         <p>
            On 8 June 2022 ITN announced the withdrawal of its ministers from the Government, which thereby lost its parliamentary majority, due to disagreements over spending and plans by Petkov to lift the country’s veto on initiating EU accession negotiations with North Macedonia (see 
            <i>Regional Relations</i>
            ). On 22 June a motion of no confidence in the Government, proposed by GERB with the support of ITN, was supported by 123 votes in the National Assembly, prompting Petkov’s resignation. Following unsuccessful efforts to form a new administration, on 1 August President Radev signed a decree on the dissolution of the legislature, scheduling new elections for October. His social policy adviser, Galab Donev, headed a new, interim Government with effect from 2 August.
          </p>
                         <p>The results of the legislative elections on 2 October 2022 (the fourth since April 2021) were inconclusive: GERB (which professed strong support for the Euro-Atlantic alliance), again contesting the elections in alliance with the SDS, emerged as the overall winner, with 25.3% of the votes and 67 seats in the National Assembly, while the anti-corruption PP alliance was placed second, securing 20.2% of the votes and 53 seats. The DPS received 13.8% and 36 seats, and the pro-Russia Vazrazhdane increased its strength to 10.2% and 27 seats, followed by the BSP za Balgariya, with 9.3% and 25 seats, DB with 7.5% and 20 seats, and the new Balgarski Vazhod (Bulgarian Rise), with 4.6% and 12 seats. (ITN failed to retain parliamentary representation.) A voter turnout of 39.4% was recorded. The National Assembly convened on 19 October 2022, although initial efforts by Borisov to negotiate a new coalition had been unsuccessful. Two days later Vezhdi Rashidov of GERB, was elected as the new President of the National Assembly. On 16 November the interim Government announced the removal of the remaining COVID-19 restrictions.</p>
                         <p>Following the failure of GERB to establish a government, on 3 January 2023 President Radev invited Nikolai Denkov of PP to form a new ruling coalition; however, Denkov’s attempt to secure parliamentary approval was unsuccessful, and after being asked to form a government the BSP also returned its mandate. On 2 February Radev announced the dissolution of the National Assembly, and legislative elections were scheduled for 2 April. Donev was reappointed to lead the interim administration.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="BG.IS.17010170781" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Recent Developments: Power-sharing Government</heading>
                         <p>The results of the elections on 2 April 2023 were again inconclusive. GERB-SDS won 26.5% of the votes and 69 seats, closely followed by an alliance between PP and DB, with 24.6% of the votes and 64 seats, while Vazrazhdane was third-placed, with 14.2% of the votes and 37 seats. Following efforts by GERB-SDS to form a coalition government with PP-DB and a second mandate granted by President Radev, in late May the two alliances agreed on the establishment of a technocratic government with two rotating premiers. The new coalition Government took office on 6 June. Under the power-sharing agreement, Denkov, representing PP-DB, took office as Prime Minister, while a former European Commissioner, Mariya Gabriel of GERB-SDS, became Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, and was to succeed Denkov as premier after a period of nine months.</p>
                         <p>Meanwhile, at the beginning of May 2023 it was reported that an unsuccessful assassination attempt had been staged against Prosecutor-General Geshev (although his critics alleged that the incident had been fabricated). In mid-June the supervisory Supreme Judicial Council voted to remove Geshev from his post for actions that threatened to undermine the reputation of the judiciary (after he had referred disparagingly to members of the National Assembly); he was replaced as Prosecutor-General on an interim basis by the director of the National Investigative Service, Borislav Sarafov.</p>
                         <p>The European Court of Human Rights ruled in early September 2023 that the Bulgarian state should create a legal framework providing recognition and protection for same-sex couples. In late September coal miners began blockading main roads in the mining regions of Stara Zagora, Pernik and Kustendil in protest at government plans, presented to the EU, for the reduction of coal emissions; in early October the Government pledged to allow coal-fuelled power stations to operate freely until 2038, but this failed to appease some sector workers. The blockade ended on 12 October. The following day the Government survived a motion of no confidence tabled by Vazrazhdane, the BSP and ITN over the Government’s environmental pledges and perceived failures in the energy sector.</p>
                         <p>At local elections held on 29 October and 5 November 2023, GERB remained the most successful party overall, but lost control of long-held major administrative centres, including the Black Sea city of Varna, and Sofia, where the candidate supported by PP-DB, entrepreneur Vassil Terziev, was elected mayor in the second round. The participation rate was 44.9% in the first round and 36.9% in the second.</p>
                         <p>In mid-November 2023 violent protests by some 4,000 football supporters, who demanded the resignation of the President of the Bulgarian Football Union, Borislav Mihaylov, caused damage in Sofia; Mihaylov submitted his resignation later that month. Meanwhile, reports of police violence against the protesters prompted PP-DB to demand the resignation of the Minister of the Interior, Kalin Stoyanov. A second motion of no confidence was defeated on 22 November.</p>
                         <p>On 6 March 2024 the National Assembly approved the resignation of Prime Minister Denkov and his Government, in accordance with the post-election power-sharing agreement. The Government was to remain in office in an acting capacity, pending the approval of a new administration under the premiership of Gabriel, with Denkov to replace Gabriel as deputy premier. However, on 19 March PP-DB rejected the formation of a reconstituted coalition government proposed by Gabriel, due to contention over the distribution of portfolios. After GERB-SDS later that month returned its mandate, and ITN also refused a mandate to form a government, on 5 April Radev scheduled pre-term legislative elections to take place concurrently with European Parliament elections on 9 June. A caretaker administration was appointed.</p>
                    </is-section>
               </is-section>
               <is-section id="BG.IS.12645112801" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Foreign Affairs</heading>
                    <is-section id="BG.IS.12645" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Regional Relations</heading>
                         <p>
            Bulgaria’s establishment of formal relations with the former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia (FYRM—now North Macedonia) in January 1992 prompted criticism from Greece. In February 1999 the Prime Ministers of Bulgaria and the FYRM signed a declaration pledging that neither country had a territorial claim on the other. In March the Bulgarian and Macedonian Ministers of Defence signed a joint declaration providing for increased military co-operation, in connection with the aim of both countries to join the 
            <xr pageref="Y" ref="NATO.IO">North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)</xr>
            . A friendship treaty between the two states, which had been signed by their respective premiers in August 2017, was ratified by the Bulgarian National Assembly on 18 January 2018. However, following a renewed dispute over issues of Macedonian identity, in November 2020 Bulgaria failed to approve the EU’s negotiating framework for North Macedonia, thereby obstructing the opening of its accession talks. President Radev continued to insist on the fulfilment of certain preconditions by North Macedonia, focusing on the rights of its ethnic Bulgarian citizens. However, the new Government headed by Petkov declared its intention to reach a rapid resolution of the dispute with North Macedonia. Macedonian Prime Minister Dimitar Kovačevski made an official visit to Sofia in January 2022, during which he and Petkov signed three memorandums on bilateral co-operation. On 24 June the National Assembly voted to withdraw the veto that had prevented North Macedonia from commencing accession talks with the EU, provided that the ethnic Bulgarian minority be recognized in North Macedonia’s Constitution; that there be no automatic recognition of the Macedonian language by Bulgaria; and that the EU negotiating framework include protocols governing bilateral relations between Bulgaria and North Macedonia. The French-mediated compromise resolution to the dispute, including the constitutional recognition of the existence of a Bulgarian minority, was approved by the Macedonian legislature on 16 July (however, adoption of the stipulated constitutional amendments was subsequently impeded by opposition dissent in North Macedonia). In February 2023 the National Assembly adopted a declaration condemning an alleged `anti-Bulgarian campaign’ by North Macedonia, including an attack in January on the secretary of a Bulgarian cultural club in the Macedonian city of Ohrid, which had prompted the temporary recall of the Bulgarian ambassador.
          </p>
                         <p id="BG.IS.40">
            Relations with the Russian Federation improved from 1992, following the signature of co-operation agreements. In November 2012 Bulgaria signed a six-year arrangement with the Russian gas state enterprise Gazprom, which provided for a reduction in the cost of Bulgaria’s natural gas imports, together with an investment agreement on the Bulgarian section of Russia’s planned South Stream pipeline (to deliver Russian gas to southern and eastern Europe). In mid-2014, however, the Bulgarian Government suspended participation in the project, owing to an infringement procedure by the European Commission, and later that year the Russian Government confirmed it was cancelling the project. Bulgaria’s relations with Russia subsequently became strained following Russia’s annexation of Ukraine’s Crimean peninsula (see 
            <i>Other External Relations</i>
            ). In January 2019 the Bulgarian Government announced that work was to commence on an additional gas pipeline, traversing Bulgaria and linking Turkey (officially redesignated as Türkiye in June 2022) with Serbia, and supplementing the TurkStream pipeline linking Russia and Turkey. The pipeline, known as Balkan Stream, entered into operation in 2021. Construction on the Bulgarian section of an EU-funded Bulgaria-Serbia Interconnector Gas Pipeline, to provide Serbia with access to Azerbaijani gas exports, began in February 2023, and the pipeline was inaugurated on 10 December.
          </p>
                         <p>
            Meanwhile, the Bulgarian Government expelled several Russian diplomats in 2019-21, owing to their suspected involvement in espionage activities, prompting Russia to expel a number of Bulgarian diplomats based in the Russian capital, Moscow. Following Russia’s large-scale invasion of Ukraine on 24 February 2022, several Russian diplomats were expelled from Bulgaria on suspicion of espionage during March. In reprisal, the Russian Government declared two Bulgarian diplomats 
            <i>personae non gratae</i>
             in early April. On 27 April Gazprom suspended gas supplies to Bulgaria (and Poland), citing the countries’ failure to comply with its demand for payment in Russian roubles. On 28 June the Bulgarian Government announced the expulsion of 70 Russian diplomatic staff, due to espionage concerns, and with the aim of reducing Russia’s diplomatic presence to the same level as that at the Bulgarian representation in Moscow. The abbot of the Russian Orthodox Church in Sofia and two Belarusian clerics were expelled from Bulgaria in September 2023, having been accused of espionage and identified as presenting a threat to national security. In the same month five Bulgarian nationals were charged in the United Kingdom with conspiring to carry out espionage activities on behalf of Russia. In November the Bulgarian authorities formally requested the extradition of three Russian military intelligence agents who were suspected of carrying out the alleged poisoning in 2015 of armaments dealer Emilian Gebrev, his son and the production manager of a munitions factory.
          </p>
                         <p>In June 2023 the new Bulgarian Government led by Nikolai Denkov agreed to send military aid to Ukraine, implementing an agreement approved by the previous National Assembly in late 2022. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky visited Bulgaria on 6 July 2023, and appealed for continued military assistance. In mid-September the National Assembly voted to lift a ban on the import of Ukrainian grain and oilseeds, which had been imposed by Bulgaria, together with Poland, Hungary, Slovakia and Romania, earlier that year, after farmers there protested at the severe impact on local prices caused by Ukrainian produce intended for transit remaining on domestic markets. On 22 November the National Assembly ratified an agreement to provide Ukraine with armoured personnel carriers; a presidential veto was subsequently overturned. The National Assembly in early December also agreed to provide Ukraine with access to Bulgarian airspace for military aircraft training and on 8 December agreed to send surplus air-defence missiles to Ukraine. In mid-February 2024, according to the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, 67,770 refugees from Ukraine were recorded in Bulgaria. Denkov visited the Ukrainian capital Kyiv on 26 February, when he met Zelensky, reaffirming Bulgaria’s support for Ukraine in its conflict with Russia, and discussing issues including regional security and economic co-operation.</p>
                         <!--https://www.svobodnaevropa.bg/a/voenna-pomosht-ukraina-pravitelstvo/32476620.html/https://www.svobodnaevropa.bg/a/ukrayna-bulgaria-voenna-pomost/32722629.html-->
                         <p>Negotiations on Bulgaria’s accession to the EU began in March 2000. Bulgaria acceded to the EU on 1 January 2007. In July 2018 Bulgaria applied to enter the EU’s Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM-II), and in August the Government approved an action plan aimed at achieving membership of the eurozone. On 10 July 2020 Bulgaria was formally admitted to ERM-II. In November 2022 the European Commission recommended that Bulgaria, together with Romania and Croatia, be admitted to the EU’s Schengen visa-free travel area; however, due to concerns from Austria and the Netherlands over irregular migration, on 8 December the Council of the EU rejected the entry of Bulgaria (and Romania) to the zone. On 30 December 2023 the Council of the EU announced that the Schengen area would be extended to Bulgaria and Romania from the end of March 2024, shortly after the two states had reached a tripartite agreement with Austria. In accordance with the agreement, on 31 March Bulgaria and Romania officially joined the Schengen visa-free regime for air and sea travel, but not land routes (with further negotiations to follow on the lifting of land border controls).</p>
                         <p>As a result of civil conflict in the Syrian Arab Republic, the number of Syrian refugees arriving in Bulgaria, via Turkey, increased significantly from 2013. The Bulgarian authorities completed the construction of a 30-km fence along the Turkish border in July 2014, and subsequently extended it to secure the entire land border. In May 2016 Bulgaria was the first EU member state to sign a bilateral protocol with Turkey for the implementation of an EU-Turkey co-operation agreement on refugees. In contravention of the agreement, at the end of February 2020 the Turkish Government announced that it would allow free passage for refugees and migrants (amid an escalation of hostilities in Syria). Prime Minister Borisov met Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan in Ankara, Turkey, on 2 March, when he received assurances that Turkey would honour its border commitments with regard to Bulgaria. According to official figures, the Bulgarian authorities apprehended over 18,500 suspected illegal migrants in 2023.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="BG.IS.12645112" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Other External Relations</heading>
                         <p>
            Bulgaria’s relations with the USA strengthened during 2002, and in February 2003 the National Assembly voted to allow US forces to make use of Bulgarian airspace, as well as the airbase at Sarafovo, on the Black Sea, for military operations during a US-led campaign in Iraq. A defence co-operation agreement on the sharing of Bulgarian military bases with US troops was signed in Sofia in April 2006; further agreements on the joint use of military facilities were signed in early 2008. In response to increased tensions following Russia’s annexation of Ukraine’s Crimean peninsula in March 2014, in March 2015 the Bulgarian Ministry of Defence announced that the number of US troops based in the country under the 2006 agreement was to be increased. In November 2017 it was further announced that additional US troops were to be deployed in Bulgaria on a rotational basis within the Atlantic Resolve operation (intended to ensure the security of NATO allies); by that time the USA was permitted to station defence equipment and up to 2,500 personnel at its four military bases in Bulgaria.
            <!--https://militarybases.com/overseas/bulgaria/bezmer/-->
            An agreement for the acquisition of eight fighter aircraft and related equipment from the USA, at a cost of around US&#160;$1,256m., was approved by the National Assembly in July 2019. During an official visit to the USA, Prime Minister Borisov met US President Donald Trump in November, when a joint statement affirming the strong relationship between the two countries was released. Amid sharply escalating tensions between Russia and Ukraine, in February 2022 the Bulgarian Government confirmed that a small NATO battlegroup under Bulgarian command would be deployed in Bulgaria to conduct training and military exercises. On 19 February Prime Minister Petkov and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, meeting on the occasion of the Munich Security Conference in Germany, signed a joint declaration in support of Ukraine’s `European perspective’. After Russia invaded Ukraine on 24 February, the US State Department in April approved the sale of up to eight fighter aircraft to assist Bulgaria in upgrading its military capabilities. The NATO battlegroup was established in Kabile, in the south-east, in March. In October Italy assumed command of the battlegroup, which at November numbered a total of 945 personnel 
            <!--https://www.nato.int/cps/en/natohq/topics_136388.htm-->
            (with personnel subsequently contributed by Albania, Greece, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Türkiye and the USA).
          </p>
                    </is-section>
               </is-section>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="BG.IS.44" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Constitution and Government</heading>
               <p id="BG.IS.45">The Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria took effect upon its promulgation, on 13 July 1991. Legislative power is held by the unicameral National Assembly, comprising 240 members, who are elected for four years by universal adult suffrage. The President of the Republic (head of state) is directly elected for a period of five years, and is also Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. The Council of Ministers, the highest organ of state administration, is elected by the National Assembly. The judicial branch of government is independent. The Supreme Court of Cassation exercises supreme judicial responsibility for the application of the law by all courts, while the Supreme Administrative Court rules on all challenges to the legality of acts of any organ of government. For local administration purposes, Bulgaria comprises 28 regions (divided into a total of 265 municipalities).</p>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="BG.IS.1264511280111" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Regional and International Co-operation</heading>
               <p>
        Bulgaria is a member of the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="EBRD.IO">European Bank for Reconstruction and Development</xr>
        , the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="CE.IO">Council of Europe</xr>
         and 
        
        the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="BSEC.IO">Organization of the Black Sea Eco­nomic Co-operation</xr>
        . In January 2007 Bulgaria acceded to the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="WB02047.IO.TXT">European Union</xr>
        .
      </p>
               <p id="BG.IS.58585858">
        Bulgaria became a member of the United Nations in 1955, and was admitted to the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="WTO.IO">World Trade Organization</xr>
         in 1996. In 2004 Bulgaria joined the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="NATO.IO">North Atlantic Treaty Organization</xr>
        .
      </p>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="BG.IS.48" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Economic Affairs</heading>
               <!--Most of the updates have been done from national website, World Bank, bank website and inflation calculated from ILO. NS (12/12/2013)-->
               <!--Sources used: World Bank; IMF data for debt, budget, balance of payment; official data for GDP, sectoral contributions as well as growth, ILO; FAO; bank website for trade. SK (28.11.12) -->
               <p id="BG.IS.49">In 2022, according to estimates by the World Bank, Bulgaria’s gross national income (GNI), measured at average 2020-22 prices, was US&#160;$85,662m., equivalent to $13,250 per head (or $32,520 per head on an international purchasing-power parity basis). During 2013-22, it was estimated, the population decreased at an average rate of 1.3% per year, while gross domestic product (GDP) per head increased, in real terms, at an average annual rate of 4.0%. Bulgaria’s overall GDP increased, in real terms, by an average of 2.6% annually during 2013-22. According to official figures, real GDP increased by 7.7% in 2021 and by 3.9% in 2022.</p>
               <p id="BG.IS.50">Agriculture (including hunting, forestry and fishing) contributed 4.3% of GDP in 2022, when the sector engaged 6.3% of the employed labour force. The principal crops are wheat, maize, sunflower seeds, barley, potatoes, grapes, tomatoes and watermelons. Bulgaria is a major exporter of wine, and there is a large exportable surplus of processed agricultural products. During 2013-22 the GDP of the agricultural sector increased, in real terms, at an average annual rate of 3.8%; the GDP of the sector grew by 28.8% in 2021, but declined by 4.4% in 2022.</p>
               <p id="BG.IS.51">Industry (including mining, manufacturing, construction and utilities) provided some 28.6% of GDP in 2022. The sector engaged 29.9% of the employed labour force in that year. Industrial GDP increased, in real terms, at an average annual rate of 1.6% during 2013-22; industrial GDP increased by 1.7% in 2021 and by 12.1% in 2022.</p>
               <p id="BG.IS.52">In 2022 mining and quarrying engaged 0.9% of the employed labour force. Coal, copper and copper ore, gold, silver, lead and zinc are mined, and petroleum is extracted on the Black Sea coast. According to estimates by the United Nations (UN), mining GDP (including utilities) increased, in real terms, at an average annual rate of 0.2% in 2013-21; GDP in the sector decreased by 0.4% in 2020, but increased by 14.4% in 2021.</p>
               <!--Mining GDP not available in official stats neither in World Bank, hence used UN SHG 27 NOV 2018-->
               <p id="BG.IS.53">According to UN estimates, the manufacturing sector contributed 13.1% of GDP in 2021. The sector engaged 18.2% of the employed labour force in 2022, according to official figures. The GDP of the manufacturing sector increased at an average annual rate of 1.1%, in real terms, in 2013-21, according to UN estimates; the GDP of the sector decreased by 12.4% in 2020, but increased by 2.5% in 2021.</p>
               <p id="BG.IS.5311323">The construction sector contributed 3.7% of GDP in 2022, when it engaged 8.6% of the employed labour force. The GDP of the sector declined at an average annual rate of 1.4% in 2013-21, in real terms. Sectoral GDP decreased by 17.1% in 2021, but increased by 5.4% in 2022.</p>
               <p id="BG.IS.54">
        Bulgaria’s production of primary energy in 2020 was equivalent to 60.7% of gross consumption. Coal and nuclear power, the latter produced by the country’s sole nuclear power station, at Kozloduy, are the main domestic sources of energy. Four of the plant’s six reactors were closed by 2006, in compliance with conditions for membership of the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="WB02047.IO.TXT">European Union (EU)</xr>
        . Bulgaria’s proven coal reserves stood at 2,366m. metric tons at the end of 2020. In 2014 nuclear power provided 33.8% of electricity production, while coal accounted for 46.2% in 2015. Mineral fuels represented 15.6% of the value of merchandise imports in 2022.
      </p>
               <!--Primary energy figure sourced from https://www.nsi.bg/en/content/5057/overall-energy-balance-sheet MKA 26 Nov 2020-->
               <p id="BG.IS.55">The services sector contributed 67.0% of GDP and engaged 63.8% of the employed labour force in 2022. Real GDP in the services sector increased at an average annual rate of 3.9% during 2013-22; the GDP of the sector increased by 9.9% in 2021 and by 3.9% in 2022.</p>
               <p id="BG.IS.56">In 2022 Bulgaria recorded a visible merchandise trade deficit of US&#160;$5,098.0m., and there was a deficit of $591.6m. on the current account of the balance of payments. In that year the principal sources of imports were the Russian Federation (which provided 11.1% of the total), the People’s Republic of China, Germany, Türkiye and Italy. The main market for exports in 2022 was Germany (taking 14.1% of the total). Romania, Italy, Greece and Türkiye were also significant purchasers. The principal exports in 2022 were metals (including iron and steel), petroleum products, raw materials for the food industry, food, beverages and tobacco, machines and equipment, and spare parts and equipment. The principal imports in that year were mineral fuels, machines and equipment, food, beverages and tobacco, spare parts and equipment, and plastics and rubber.</p>
               <p id="BG.IS.57">In 2022 Bulgaria recorded a budgetary deficit of 1,323m. new leva. Bulgaria’s general government gross debt was 36,126m. new leva in that year, equivalent to 21.8% of GDP. Bulgaria’s total external debt in 2021 was US&#160;$44,943m., of which $15,519m. was public and publicly guaranteed debt. In that year the cost of servicing long-term public and publicly guaranteed debt and repayments to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) was equivalent to 11.0% of the value of exports of goods, services and income (excluding workers’ remittances). The annual rate of inflation averaged 2.8% in 2013-22. Consumer prices grew by 3.3% in 2021 and by 15.3% in 2022. According to Bulgaria’s National Statistical Institute, 4.2% of the labour force were registered as unemployed in the fourth quarter of 2023.</p>
               <p id="BG.IS.59">
        Bulgaria was admitted to the EU’s Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM-II) in July 2020, prior to its planned admission to the eurozone. Meanwhile, owing to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, which resulted in a sharp decline in Bulgaria’s tourism revenue, GDP in 2020 contracted by 4.0%. Bulgaria was adversely affected by economic sanctions imposed against Russia by the EU following its invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, and Russian state enterprise Gazprom, which had provided over 90% of Bulgaria’s natural gas requirements, in April suspended gas supplies to the country, after its rejection of a demand for payment in Russian roubles. (However, Bulgaria continued to transit gas supplied by Gazprom to Serbia and Hungary.) A new Gas Interconnector Greece-Bulgaria pipeline, intended to reduce Bulgaria’s energy dependence on Russia, became operational on 1 October and was initially projected to provide annually around 1,000m. cu&#160;m of gas from Azerbaijan to Bulgaria. An EU embargo imposed on imports of seaborne Russian crude oil from December granted an exemption to Bulgaria, with the aim of ensuring the security of domestic fuel supplies. It was subsequently reported that the exemption had enabled Bulgaria’s largest refinery, Lukoil Neftochim Burgas, majority-owned and -operated by the Russian oil producer Lukoil, to continue to buy Russian crude oil and export refined fuel products on the global market. Meanwhile, amid continued political uncertainty in Bulgaria (see 
        <i>Domestic Political Affairs</i>
        ) and inflationary pressures in the EU, a revised target was announced to adopt the euro by 2025. After GDP growth recovered to 7.7% in 2021, it slowed to 3.9% in 2022, amid weakened external demand. 
        <!--https://www.upstreamonline.com/energy-security/bulgaria-slaps-transit-fee-on-russian-gas-and-sets-timetable-to-halt-oil-imports/2-1-1535825-->
        A revised recovery and sustainability plan, to be financed by up to €5,690m. in EU grants over five years, was submitted to the European Commission in late September 2023; targets to reduce carbon emissions from electricity generation had been modified, following protests by energy sector workers, with a new plan to allow the country’s coal-fuelled power plants to run until 2038. In October 2023 the Government established a timetable for Lukoil to halt shipments of Russian oil by 1 March 2024, thereby removing its exemption earlier than planned. Official, preliminary data indicated that real GDP had increased at a rate of 1.8% in 2023.
      </p>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="BG.IS.63" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Public Holidays</heading>
               <public-holidays>
                    <holiday-year>
                         <year>2025</year>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>1 January</date>
                              <holiday-name>New Year</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>3 March</date>
                              <holiday-name>National Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>20-21 April</date>
                              <holiday-name>Eastern Orthodox Easter</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>1 May</date>
                              <holiday-name>Labour Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>6 May</date>
                              <holiday-name>St George’s Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>24 May</date>
                              <holiday-name>Education Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>6 September</date>
                              <holiday-name>Unification Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>22 September</date>
                              <holiday-name>Inde­pendence Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>24-26 December</date>
                              <holiday-name>Christmas</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                    </holiday-year>
               </public-holidays>
          </is-section>
     </is-section>
</intro-survey>