<?xml version="1.0"?>
<country-survey id="ME.GE" id-root="me" iso="me" original-filename="yuggeog.rtf" print-style="PGWIDTH" sect-type="geography" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <country-head>Montenegro</country-head>
     <heading>Geography</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE">Montenegro</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE">Geography</alt-heading>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Physical Features</heading>
          <p id="ME.GEOG.1">Montenegro is situated in the central Balkan Peninsula, in South-Eastern Europe. It has frontiers with Bosnia and Herzegovina to the west and north-west, with Serbia and Kosovo to the east, and Albania to the south-east, as well as a short frontier with the Dubrovnik region of Croatia in the south-west. There is a western coastline along the Adriatic Sea (part of the Mediterranean).</p>
          <p>The country, which has a total area of 13,880 sq&#160;km (5,360 sq&#160;miles), has a rugged mountainous terrain, being dominated by the Black Mountain (Crna Gora), from which the country takes its name. Montenegro is also traversed by some fertile river valleys, notably that of the Morača, which cuts southwards towards the lowlands around Lake Skadar (Skadarsko Jezero). Other significant rivers include the Tara and the Komarnica. There are some coastal lowlands around the harbour of Kotor, on the Bay of Kotor, and to the south of the Adriatic city of Bar and Lake Skadar.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Climate</heading>
          <p id="ME.GEOG.3">The climate is Mediterranean near the coast, and continental inland. Mountainous areas have a colder climate with heavy snowfall in winter. Average daily temperatures range from between −7°C (19.4°F) and 23°C (73.4°F) inland, and between 11°C (51.8°F) and 28°C (84.2°F) on the coast. </p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Population</heading>
          <p id="ME.GEOG.4">
      According to official estimates, the population numbered 616,695 at January 2023
      
      , giving a population density of 45.2 per sq km. At the 2011 census, 45.0% of the population of the republic described their ethnicity as Montenegrin (compared with 61.9% at the time of the 1991 census, although this was believed to reflect the fluidity of identity between Montenegrins and Serbs, rather than any significant migration), 28.7% as Serbs (compared with 9.3% in 1991), 8.6% as Bosniaks, 4.9% as Albanians, 3.3% as ethnic Muslims and 1.0% Croats. There were also communities of Roma. The principal language in the country is Montenegrin, and was formerly referred to as the 
      <i>ijekavian</i>
       dialect Serbo-Croat. It is written in both the Cyrillic and Latin scripts. The principal religion among Montenegrins and Serbs is Orthodox Christianity, which in Montenegro is represented by two jurisdictions: the Serbian Orthodox Church, represented by the Metropolitanate of Montenegro and the Littoral; and the Montenegrin Orthodox Church, which was restored in 1993, having been annexed to the Serbian Orthodox Church in 1920. There are some Catholics (principally among the Croat and Albanian minorities), of both the Latin and Byzantine rites, and Islam is the religion of Bosniaks, Slav Muslims and most of the Albanian population. The capital is Podgorica, which had an estimated population of 150,977 at the census of 2011. The historical capital is Cetinje, with a population of 13,918. Other important towns include Nikšić (population 56,970), Pljevlja (19,136) and Bar (13,503).
    </p>
          <figure-group media="PRINT">
               <figure filename="/raidtec/esdata/EUROPA/EECIS/GRAPHICS/EPS/Montenegro.lay" usage="PRINT" />
          </figure-group>
     </gen-section>
</country-survey>