<?xml version="1.0"?>
<country-survey id="ME.HI" id-root="me" iso="me" print-style="PGWIDTH" sect-type="history" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>History</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Montenegro</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">History</alt-heading>
     <author-group>
          <primary-authors>
               <person-name>
                    <forename>Florian</forename>
                    <surname>Bieber</surname>
               </person-name>
          </primary-authors>
          <other-authors>
      Revised by 
      <person-name>
                    <forename>Claudia</forename>
                    <surname>Laštro</surname>
               </person-name>
          </other-authors>
     </author-group>
     <p>Centre for Southeast European Studies, University of Graz, Austria.</p>
     <gen-section id="ME.HI.11818107751" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF" usage="casee">
          <heading>Introduction</heading>
          <p>
      The history of Montenegro as a political unit has its origins in the ninth century 
      <sc>ce</sc>
      , when the first states emerged in the region. Duklja, which covered parts of contemporary Montenegro, co-existed with other medieval states in the region, including Raška, Hum and Bosnia. The mostly Slavic population had converted to Christianity and was influenced by Byzantium, the dominant power in the Balkans. Duklja, or Zeta, as it became increasingly known, was not a stable political unit and by the late 12th century had become part of Raška. The region retained some autonomy, and, with Turkish OsmanlI (Ottoman) conquests on the Balkan Peninsula beginning in the 14th century, Zeta first fell under Ottoman rule by the 15th century. From the early 17th century Montenegro was able to carve out its autonomy from direct Ottoman influence. By forging ties with Venice and later Russia, as well as owing to its remote location, Montenegro, centred around the capital of Cetinje, was able to govern itself, while formally remaining under Ottoman rule. During the 18th and 19th centuries Montenegro gradually built institutions and expanded its territory, although it remained situated between the powers of the Ottoman Empire and the expanding Habsburg Monarchy. Led by a Prince-Bishop (Vladika) from the Petrović Dynasty from the early 17th century, the combination of religious and political leadership came to an end in 1852 when Prince Danilo II renounced the leadership of the church.
    </p>
          <p>Montenegrin independence was formally recognized at the Berlin Congress in 1878. During the first decade of the 20th century Montenegro adopted its first Constitution (1905) and held its first parliamentary elections (1906). In 1910 Nikola I, who ruled for almost six decades (1860-1918), declared Montenegro a kingdom. In terms of foreign policy, Nikola I vied with the Karađorđević dynasty of Serbia for South Slav leadership and joined its neighbour during the First Balkan War (1912-13) against Ottoman rule.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section id="ME.HI.11818113771" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>The Kingdom of Yugoslavia</heading>
          <p>By the time Montenegro joined the newly established Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes in 1918, it had been engulfed in continuous war since 1912. During the First Balkan War the Montenegrin kingdom conquered northern territories that today form part of Montenegro, western Kosovo and Albania, including the town of Shkodër (Scutari), from which it had to withdraw in 1913. During the First World War it fought together with Serbia, but was occupied in 1916 by Austria-Hungary. At the end of the war Montenegro was occupied by Allied forces, and King Nikola I was unable to return. A controversial Grand National Assembly, held in Podgorica in November 1918, decided that it would depose King Nikola I and that Montenegro would join the emerging Serb, Croat and Slovene state under the Serbian Karađorđević dynasty. The decision led to a low-intensity civil war in Montenegro that continued until 1924 between the Zelenaši (Greens), who favoured independence, and the Bjelaši (Whites), who supported the union. A government-in-exile, under the leadership of King Nikola I (prior to his death in 1921), continued to function, but lost international recognition in 1920 and became increasingly irrelevant in Montenegro itself. After the failure of armed resistance, the Greens joined the political competition on a federalist platform. Following the establishment of a royal dictatorship in 1929 (when the country was renamed Yugoslavia), King Aleksandar divided the country into nine banovine, including the Zeta banovina, with Cetinje as its capital. This territory covered Montenegro, eastern Bosnia and parts of Kosovo. (Territory around Kotor was detached and joined the Croat banovina in 1939.) After the dismantling of Yugoslavia by Nazi Germany and its allies in April 1941, Montenegro came under Italian military occupation. Parts of the territory were directly annexed by Italy, whereas other territories joined Italian-dominated Albania. The attempt to declare a Montenegrin `puppet’ state failed, partly as a consequence of a communist-led uprising. In 1943, after Italy had surrendered to Allied forces, Montenegro was occupied by Nazi Germany.</p>
          <p>During the Second World War a three-way conflict between pro-communist Partisans, pro-Serb royalist Četniks and pro-Montenegrin Četniks made Montenegro ungovernable and led to high human losses: some 37,000 Montenegrins died during the war. The Partisan movement, not only in Montenegro but across Yugoslavia, established institutions during the war, so preparing the way for the federal organization of the post-war state that was determined at the Antifašističko Veće Narodnog Oslobođenja Jugoslavije (AVNOJ—Anti-Fascist Council of the National Liberation of Yugoslavia) in Jajce, Bosnia and Herzegovina, in 1943. Montenegro subsequently became one of the six republics that formed Yugoslavia, and Montenegrins were recognized as one of the constituent peoples of the state, alongside the Serbs, Croats, Slovenes, Macedonians and, with effect from 1968, (Slav) Muslims. The strong support for the Partisan movement in Montenegro resulted in many Montenegrins assuming leading positions in post-war Yugoslavia. After the split between the Yugoslav leader Josep Broz (Tito) and the Soviet leader Stalin (Iosif Dzhugashvili) in 1948, a disproportionately high number of Montenegrin party members were accused of siding with the USSR and interned at Goli Otok, a notorious prison island in the Adriatic. Later, a leading Montenegrin party functionary, Milovan Đilas, was dismissed from all his posts in 1954 and repeatedly arrested for his criticism of the communist system.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section id="ME.IS.11818121871" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>The Disintegration of Yugoslavia</heading>
          <p>As Yugoslavia increasingly slid into economic and political crises following the death of Tito in 1980, the economic situation in Montenegro deteriorated. Some 6,000 workers lost their jobs in the late 1980s, and many of those employed did not receive regular salaries. The resulting mass protests in late 1988 initially emerged from the largest state enterprises in Titograd (now Podgorica) and Nikšić, but soon connected to a heterogenous counter-elite within the Savez Komunista Crne Gore (SKCG—League of Communists of Montenegro), the Savez Socialističke Omladine (League of Socialist Youth) and the University’s party organizations. The economically motivated protests quickly became focused on national issues as well, such as support for the Serb minority in the majority ethnic-Albanian province of Kosovo (in Serbia). The Montenegrin leadership forcibly ended the protests in the republic later in October, but came under increased pressure in the following months. The high rate of participation during the demonstrations (around 120,000, or 20% of the population of Montenegro) resulted in the mass resignation of the SKCG and republican leadership in January 1989. The new leadership around Momir Bulatović and Milo Đukanović quickly aligned with Serbian leader Slobodan Milošević and shifted towards an openly pro-Serbian policy.</p>
          <p>As in Serbia, the SKCG long resisted multi-party elections. At the first multi-party elections to the Skupština Republike Crne Gore (Republican Assembly of Montenegro), held on 9 and 16 December 1990, the SKCG secured 56.2% of the votes, while the largest opposition party, the Savez Reformskih Snaga Jugoslavije (Alliance of Reformist Forces of Yugoslavia), led by the former Yugoslav Prime Minister Ante Marković, obtained only 13.6%, followed by the Serb nationalist Narodna Stranka (NS—People’s Party), with 12.8%, and the minority Demokratska Koalicija (Democratic Coalition), with 10.1%. The dominance of the SKCG was based on the party’s full control of the media and state apparatus, the recent leadership transformation, and its shift towards a pro-Serbian position. (The SKCG and its successor organization, the Demokratska Partija Socijalista Crne Gore—DPS—Democratic Party of Socialists of Montenegro, continued to dominate politics in Montenegro until 2020.) In the concurrent presidential poll, Bulatović, the leader of the SKCG, was elected as Montenegro’s President. Đukanović was named Prime Minister in 1991, an office he would hold until 1998, and again in 2003-06, 2008-10 and 2012-16. As other Yugoslav republics moved towards independence, Montenegro aligned itself closely with Serbia. After armed conflict erupted in Croatia in 1991 between Croatian Serb forces backed by the Jugoslavenska Narodna Armija (JNA—Yugoslav People’s Army) and the Croatian military, Montenegro supported the campaign of the JNA in the Konavle region and the siege of Dubrovnik, which continued for several weeks in late 1991.</p>
          <p>During peace negotiations, held under the auspices of the European Community (EC, now European Union—EU) in late 1991, Montenegro, unlike Serbia, accepted the compromise `Carrington Plan’, which envisaged to transform the Yugoslav federation into an asymmetric confederation. Following pressure from Serbia, Montenegro was forced to withdraw its support. Although Montenegro did not oppose Serbia’s policy of supporting insurgent Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Croatia, it nevertheless sought to maintain its autonomy. In a referendum held on 1 March 1992, some 96% of Montenegrin citizens (with a participation rate of 66.0%) voted for a joint state with Serbia. Montenegro and Serbia were the only two republics to join together in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) in April 1992. A bicameral federal parliament was to take account of the wide disparity in size and population structure of the two republics. The reconstituted Yugoslavia was marked by Milošević’s authoritarian practices and the predominance of Serbia. In October Montenegro enacted a new Constitution, which was considerably more liberal than that of Serbia, guaranteeing rights for minority groups and limiting presidential powers. At the federal level, the President and Prime Minister were at first from Serbia, effectively marginalizing Montenegro’s status in the Federation. Nevertheless, Montenegro remained loyal to Serbia until Đukanović's open dissent with Milošević in 1997, when the issue of Montenegro’s autonomy resurfaced (see below).</p>
          <p>During the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina in August 1992, Serb paramilitaries occupied the mostly Bosniak (Slav Muslim) inhabited town of Pljevlja in the Montenegrin section of the Sandžak region that is shared between Montenegro and Serbia. Although this spillover of the conflict quickly ended, Bosniaks remained vulnerable to pressure from Serb paramilitaries located in nearby Serb-controlled regions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Furthermore, some Bosniaks who had fled from the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina were deported, delivered to Bosnian Serb forces, and executed. Under the United Nations (UN) sanctions regime against Yugoslavia in 1992-95, the Montenegrin authorities condoned significant smuggling from and to neighbouring Albania and Italy. The smuggling and the general criminalization of Yugoslavia’s society and economy during the sanctions fostered the rise of organized crime in Montenegro, which has remained an issue ever since.</p>
          <p>
      Support for greater autonomy or independence from Serbia was weak in the early 1990s. The principal political parties that supported the republic's independence, the Liberalni Savez Crne Gore (LSCG—Liberal Alliance of Montenegro) and the Socijaldemokratska Partija Crne Gore (SDP—Social Democratic Party of Montenegro), could not secure the support of more than one-fifth of the electorate. In addition to political parties, a national orthodox church and other institutions emerged, promoting a distinct Montenegrin identity and, by extension, a secession from Serbia. Political support for greater autonomy gained momentum as Ðukanović came into direct conflict with Milošević. The conflict became public in February 1997, when Ðukanović criticized Milošević in the Serbian opposition weekly 
      <i>Vreme</i>
      , amid mass protests in Serbia prompted by the Government’s attempted annulment of an opposition victory in local elections in November 1996. The conflict created a division between Đukanović and Bulatović, the President of Montenegro and leader of the DPS, with the latter remaining loyal to Milošević. The DPS split into two competing wings, supporting the Prime Minister and the President, respectively. Ðukanović succeeded, however, in obtaining precedence in the party, and Bulatović and his supporters left the DPS to form the Socijalistička Narodna Partija Crne Gore (SNP—Socialist People’s Party of Montenegro), which subsequently took over the majority of the seats held by the DPS in the federal parliament. In Montenegro’s presidential election in October 1997, Ðukanović defeated Bulatović by a narrow margin. In January 1998 Bulatović’s supporters sought to prevent Ðukanović’s assumption of the presidency through violent protests, but control of the police forces secured Ðukanović’s position. Bulatović was subsequently appointed Yugoslav Prime Minister and he remained loyal to Milošević until the latter’s removal from office in 2000.
    </p>
          <p>During the late 1990s tensions between Montenegro and Serbia steadily increased. Initially, the confrontation focused on Montenegro’s status in the Federation, the international isolation caused by Serbia’s war in Kosovo and economic interests. The DPS’s break with the Milošević regime brought the party closer to the opposition. In Montenegro’s parliamentary elections in 1998, the DPS formed a coalition with the NS, which had abandoned its extreme Serb nationalist position, growing increasingly critical of Milošević, and the Socijalistička Partija Srbije (SPS—Socialist Party of Serbia). The Da Živimo Bolje (For a Better Life) coalition won the elections and allowed the DPS to remain in government.</p>
          <p>The Kosovo conflict of March-June 1999 compounded the split between Montenegro and Serbia, with Montenegro remaining `neutral’. During the intervention by North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) forces, only a few military installations in the republic were targeted. At the same time, some 80,000 ethnic Albanian refugees from Kosovo fled to Montenegro. During the Kosovo conflict Ðukanović defied Milošević’s order to place Montenegrin security forces under federal military command. The Montenegrin Government took incremental steps to separate itself from Serbia, in 1999 abolishing visa requirements for foreign nationals, opening representative offices in a number of countries and introducing the German Deutsche Mark (DM) as a parallel currency, before it fully replaced the Yugoslav dinar in 2000.</p>
          <p>The Montenegrin Government boycotted Yugoslav presidential and parliamentary elections in September 2000, as the Yugoslav Constitution had been altered by Milošević’s SPS and its allies without the agreement of the DPS in July . These amendments introduced the system of direct elections for the office of Federal President and abolished a minimum voter turnout, effectively strengthening the position of Serbia.</p>
          <p>The victory of the opposition candidate, Vojislav Koštunica, in the Yugoslav presidential election on 24 September 2000 preceded the democratization of Serbia. In Montenegro the governing DPS subsequently openly endorsed full independence. As only the pro-Milošević SNP and its allies participated in the federal elections in Montenegro, the new democratic Yugoslav Government had to rely on the Montenegrin opposition to obtain a majority in the federal parliament, further intensifying tensions between the leaderships of Serbia and Montenegro. Following the parliamentary elections in Montenegro in April 2001, the DPS relied on the SDP and the LSCG for the formation of a government. Both parties staunchly supported independence and demanded an early referendum. Owing to intense pressure from the EU, no referendum was conducted. EU-mediated talks between the Montenegrin, Yugoslav and Serbian leaderships resulted in an agreement on the creation of a new State Union of Serbia and Montenegro, known as the Belgrade Agreement, which was reached in March 2002.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section id="ME.HI.11818124791" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Montenegro in the State Union</heading>
          <p>The agreement envisaged a weak common state with only five ministers and an indirectly elected President. Other than defence and foreign affairs, few competencies resided with the common state. Both republics retained separate economic systems, visa regimes and currencies: the euro—which had replaced the DM in January—in Montenegro; the dinar in Serbia. Montenegro, moreover, retained a separate Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Belgrade Agreement permitted Montenegro to hold a referendum on independence after three years. In the event of a vote for independence, Serbia would be the sole legal successor to the State Union. The State Union of Serbia and Montenegro was proclaimed in March 2003. Serbia secured the Ministries of Foreign Affairs and Defence, despite constitutional provisions allocating one of these ministries to Montenegro. Svetozar Marović, a prominent member of Montenegro’s DPS, was elected President of the State Union. In general, the State Union had little legitimacy in Montenegro and no efforts were made to harmonize the republican legislation with that of the Union. Furthermore, the Montenegrin authorities rejected direct elections to the State Union legislature scheduled for 2005 for fear of legitimizing the State Union and giving a political advantage to Montenegro’s pro-Serbian opposition.</p>
          <p>Negotiations with the EU on a Stabilization and Association Agreement (SAA) began in October 2005. These talks were conducted largely separately for Serbia and Montenegro, but were interrupted owing to the lack of co-operation of the State Union (Serbia in particular) with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.</p>
          <p>Meanwhile, the LSCG left the coalition with the DPS in April 2002, as it rejected the postponement of the referendum. New elections in October resulted in victory for the DPS and its partner, the SDP, prompting Đukanović to resign as President and again to take up the post of Prime Minister. In May 2003 Filip Vujanović of the DPS was elected to replace Đukanović as President.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section id="ME.HI.11818125371" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Independent Montenegro</heading>
          <p>Preparations for a referendum began in early 2006. EU mediator Miroslav Lajčák, Slovakia’s ambassador to the State Union, sought to ensure that any approval of independence would enjoy broad public support. Thus, he proposed a threshold of 55% for a pro-independence vote, together with a minimum turnout of 50%. In a unanimous vote (with 68 of 75 deputies present), the Republican Assembly decided on 3 March 2006 that a referendum would be conducted on 21 May under the conditions stipulated by the EU. Only the deputies of the staunchly pro-independence Liberalna Partija Crne Gore (LPCG—Liberal Party of Montenegro—the successor organization to the LSCG), the SDP and one Albanian deputy did not support the referendum law, due to the controversial threshold. The Republican Referendum Commission included equal numbers of supporters and opponents of independence, headed by a Slovakian diplomat, František Lipka, to ensure the Commission’s independence. Free and fair voting conditions were confirmed by large numbers of international and domestic observers. On 21 May 86.5% of eligible voters participated in the referendum, including many Montenegrins living abroad, with 55.5% voting in favour of independence. Support for independence was strongest in those regions populated by minority groups (such as the predominantly ethnic Albanian area of Ulcinj) and in regions that formed part of historical Montenegro (such as Cetinje). Opposition was strongest in the north, in those areas bordering Serbia and in the coastal region of Herceg Novi.</p>
          <p>Although pro-union parties subsequently lodged a number of complaints, these were rejected by the Republican Referendum Commission, which announced the results on 31 May 2006. The Republican Assembly formally declared Montenegro’s independence on 3 June. Serbia declared its independence on 5 June, officially dissolving the State Union. On 15 June Serbia recognized Montenegro, after Iceland, which was the first state to recognize Montenegro (on 8 June), the EU (12 June), the USA (13 June) and other former Yugoslav republics.</p>
          <p>The ruling DPS performed strongly in the parliamentary elections on 10 September 2006. Together with its coalition partners, the SDP and the Hrvatska Građanska Inicijativa (HGI—Croatian Civic Initiative), which were grouped in the Koalicija za Evropsku Crnu Goru (Coalition for a European Montenegro), it obtained 48.6%. The opposition was split into three groups of about equal strength, of which the largest was the Srpska Lista (Serbian List), led by the Srpska Narodna Stranka (SNS—Serb People’s Party) of Andrija Mandić, with 12 seats and 14.7% of the votes. From a strongly Serb nationalist background, the bloc emphasized explicitly the protection of the rights of Serbs in Montenegro. A coalition of the SNP, the NS and the small Demokratska Srpska Stranka Crne Gore (DSS—Democratic Serbian Party of Montenegro) obtained 14.1% of the votes and 11 seats. The SNP’s failure to prevent Montenegrin independence, combined with the emergence of a more nationalist SNS, caused the SNP to lose substantial support. The third principal opposition group, the Pokret za Promjene (PzP—Movement for Changes), which won 13.1% of the votes and 11 seats, campaigned on an anti-corruption, reformist platform, led by Nebojša Medojević. The group had hitherto operated as a non-governmental organization (NGO), opposing the Đukanović Government while seeking to remain neutral on the question of independence. The LPCG, which contested the elections together with the Bošnjačka Stranka (BS—Bosniak Party), secured three seats, with 3.8%. In addition, two ethnic Albanian parties—the Demokratska Unija Albanaca (Democratic Union of Albanians) and the Albanska Alternativa (Albanian Alternative)—and a coalition comprising the Demokratski Savez u Crnoj Gori (Democratic League of Montenegro) and the Partija Demokratskog Prosperiteta (Party of Democratic Prosperity) each succeeded in obtaining one seat.</p>
          <p>The new legislature received the difficult task of drafting a new constitution. The Council of Europe accepted Montenegro as a member in May 2007, contingent on the country’s adoption of a new constitution within a one-year period. Pro-Serbian opposition parties boycotted the work of the parliamentary constitutional committee over procedural matters. The main controversies involved the definition of the state, its symbols, and official language. Elements within the SNS proposed that Montenegro be constituted as a state of different nations, under which Serbs would be elevated to the status of a constituent people. However, the DPS and some other parties favoured the constitution of a civic state without any specific reference to ethnic identity. A compromise, secured through the support of the moderate PzP, was approved on 19 October in the Republican Assembly (which was redesignated as the Assembly of Montenegro). Fifty-five of the 81 deputies from the DPS, the SDP, the LPCG, the PzP, and the Croat and Bosniak minority parties voted in favour, while 21 deputies from the NS, the SNS, the SNP and the DSS voted against, and the Albanian minority deputies did not participate in the vote. The new Constitution defined the official language of the state as Montenegrin, written in either the Latin or Cyrillic script, but also granted official status to Serbian, Croatian, Bosnian and Albanian. The Constitution described Montenegro as a civic state, without giving precedence to any ethnic group. The Serb parties criticized the Constitution for not giving adequate recognition to Serbs in Montenegro. Albanian deputies also took a critical stance, as they considered the adoption of the new Constitution as a missed opportunity to address the needs of the Albanian minority.</p>
          <p>In the first presidential election since independence, held on 6 April 2008, Filip Vujanović was re-elected in the first round with 51.9% of the votes. None of the three opposition candidates managed to secure more than 20% of the votes. The results indicated that the division of the opposition into three blocs had weakened its position. The DPS continued to benefit from the backing of minorities and the SDP. Elections to the Assembly were held on 29 March 2009. The Koalicija za Evropsku Crnu Goru (KECG—Coalition for a European Montenegro), led by the DPS in alliance with the SDP and minority parties, won 51.9% of the votes cast and 48 (of 81) seats in the legislature. The SNP was in second place, with 16.8% of the votes and 16 seats. Nova Srpska Demokratija (NOVA—New Serbian Democracy), the successor party to the SNS, headed by Mandić, gained 9.2% and eight seats. Other than the Albanian minority parties that received designated seats, the only other party to secure representation in the Assembly of Montenegro was the PzP, which took five seats, with 6.0% of the votes.</p>
          <p>In December 2010 Đukanović announced his resignation as Prime Minister. He had already resigned once before in October 2006, following the electoral victory of his party, but had returned to the post of Prime Minister in February 2008, after the resignation of Željko Šturanović. Đukanović’s return to office was interpreted as a sign of an internal power struggle within the DPS. During his brief absence from politics, he controversially became active in business, allegedly amassing considerable wealth. Government support for Prva Banka, a private bank partly owned by Đukanović’s brother Aleksandar `Aco’ Đukanović, attracted particular controversy. According to media reports, Prva Banka was bailed out by the Government, after it accumulated large debts in 2008; in addition, the Government held substantial funds at the bank, indicating close links between the state and private sector. In late June 2007 prosecutors in the Italian town of Bari announced that they would instigate criminal proceedings against Đukanović, on charges of participating in cigarette smuggling between 1994 and 2002. After his return to office (when his immunity from prosecution was restored), Đukanović gave testimony in the case voluntarily in March 2008, and the charges against him were formally abandoned in April 2009.</p>
          <p>Igor Lukšić, hitherto Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, who was widely considered to belong to the reformist wing of the DPS, replaced Đukanović as premier in December 2010. Nevertheless, Đukanović was re-elected President of the DPS in May 2011. In early 2012 large anti-Government protests erupted, headed by the Mreže za Afirmaciju Nevladinog Sektora (MANS—Network for Affirmation of the Non-governmental Sector) and other civil society organizations. The protests first focused on a rise in utility costs, interpreted by many as a hidden tax to bail out failed privatized companies, but later demanded the resignation of the Prime Minister. However, the protests dwindled, as the opposition failed to unite. In addition, the opposition’s activity was discouraged by numerous attacks against MANS and other NGOs by the government-controlled media, as well as assaults on opposition journalists. The EU and other international organizations expressed concerns over democracy and media freedom in Montenegro.</p>
          <p>Early parliamentary elections on 14 October 2012 resulted in another victory for the DPS, which, in coalition with the LPCG and the SDP, secured 46.3% of the votes and 39 seats. The main opposition alliance comprised the PzP and NOVA, which together won 23.2% and 20 seats, followed by the SNP with 11.2% and nine seats, and a newly established opposition party, Pozitivna Crna Gora (PCG—Positive Montenegro), with 8.4% and seven seats. The remaining seats were won by Bosniak and Albanian minority parties. After the elections, Đukanović returned as Prime Minister, heading a coalition that included the SDP, the BS and the HGI. Đukanović’s return to the premiership confirmed his dominance over Montenegrin politics, but was viewed critically by observers as a sign of weakness in the DPS.</p>
          <p>
      The presidential election held on 7 April 2013 demonstrated a decline in support for the DPS. The main opposition parties, PzP and NOVA, united behind former diplomat Miodrag Lekić. With only two candidates contesting the poll, the incumbent Vujanović won narrowly, with 51.2% of votes, compared with 48.8% for Lekić. The election of Vujanović was controversial, as the office of the President was constitutionally restricted to two terms. However, the DPS argued that since Vujanović’s first term had begun prior to the adoption of the Constitution, he was eligible to serve a third term. This interpretation was widely challenged, including by the SDP, the long-term coalition partner of the DPS. The presidential election was overshadowed by leaked recordings of meetings of the ruling parties, in which party officials appeared to promise jobs for votes. The scandal led to the initiation of a parliamentary investigation into the allegations, which had been leaked by the opposition daily newspaper 
      <i>Dan</i>
      .
    </p>
          <p>At a party congress in June 2015, the DPS re-elected Đukanović as party Chairman. Despite the reorganization of the party’s main board, the leadership remained firmly in the hands of close associates of Đukanović. The opposition, in contrast, remained divided and weak. The leader of the Demokratski Front (DF—Democratic Front) coalition, Lekić, left the DF in March 2015 to form a new party, the Demokratski Savez (Demos—Democratic Alliance). Meanwhile, in late 2014 and early 2015 other new opposition parties emerged, including the civic movement Ujedinjena Reformska Akcija (URA—United Reform Action), which comprised politicians from Pozitivna Crna Gora and civil society activists. The Demokratska Crna Gora (DCG—Democratic Montenegro) was formed around the same time by former SNP official Aleksa Bečić. In total, around eight opposition parties vied for voter support.</p>
          <p>The largest-ever protests to be staged against Montenegro’s Government took place in September and October 2015. The protests, organized by the DF, were precipitated by controversy over Montenegro’s prospective NATO membership (see below). The Government countered the protests with police violence, increasing tensions with the opposition. The demonstrations continued in the following months to demand the formation of an interim, technocratic government by all parties represented in parliament. In January 2016 the 18-year coalition between the SDP and the DPS collapsed, after the SDP had undergone an internal conflict about the relationship with the DPS. The dispute resulted in the formation of the breakaway Socijaldemokrate Crne Gore (SDCG—Social Democrats of Montenegro), which took over all ministries previously held by the SDP. In January 2016 the DPS announced a vote of confidence in the Government, completing the rift with the SDP, which did not support the Government in the motion and thereafter moved into the opposition. The DPS, however, secured the necessary support among PCG deputies. The leader of the SDP, Ranko Krivokapić, was subsequently removed from his post as the longest-serving Speaker of the Assembly; he was replaced in June by Darko Pajović, leader of the PCG.</p>
          <p>The protests and the rift between the DPS and the SDP prompted lengthy negotiations between the opposition and the Government over conditions for the forthcoming elections in October 2016. As a result, in April, the editorial staff of the state broadcaster Radiotelevizija Crne Gore (RTCG—Radio and Television of Montenegro) resigned, together with the management of several other state-controlled institutions. Later in April a number of opposition parties agreed to enter an interim coalition with the DPS, forming a so-called `Government of Trust’, which adopted a more equal electoral framework. However, the DF, which had led the protests, declined the invitation. Although the DPS was able to retain its position, the protests and the crisis talks demonstrated the party’s vulnerability.</p>
          <p>Despite the formation of the new coalition Government headed by Ðukanović, the parliamentary elections on 16 October 2016 were characterized by a high degree of polarization. The DPS was placed first, securing 41.4% of votes cast (36 of the total 81 seats), followed by the two large opposition alliances, the DF-led coalition, with 20.3% of the votes (18 seats), and the Koalicija Ključ (Key Coalition), which included Demos, the SNP and the URA, with 11.1% (nine seats). A recently established opposition party, Demokratska Crna Gora (Democratic Montenegro), obtained 10.0% (with eight seats), and the two social-democratic parties, the SDP and SD, took 5.2% (four seats) and 3.3% (two seats), respectively. Parties of the Bosniak, Albanian and Croat minorities received the remaining seats. The DPS’s renewed mandate confirmed the party’s dominance, whereas the opposition continued to be highly divided on fundamental issues, such as NATO membership (see below), and relations with Serbia and Russia.</p>
          <p>The 2016 elections were overshadowed by the announcement that the police had arrested a number of people who were suspected of plotting a state coup on the day of polling, including the assassination of Ðukanović (with the aim of preventing the country’s planned NATO accession—see below). The alleged coup attempt was connected to groups from Russia, as well as to two leading members of the DF, Andrija Mandić and Milan Knežević. Owing to the high level of polarization between government and opposition, legal proceedings were highly contested. Meanwhile, opposition parties refused to recognize the election results and their deputies boycotted parliament. Following EU mediation, by June 2018 most of the opposition parties had gradually returned to the Assembly.</p>
          <p>Following the elections, Đukanović withdrew (once more) from government, but he remained Chairman of the DPS. His close confidant, Duško Marković (a former head of the National Security Agency, and hitherto a deputy premier and Minister of the Interior), became Prime Minister of a Government that included the SDCG and minority parties. In March 2018 Đukanović announced his candidacy for the presidency. He won the presidential election in the first round on 15 April, with 53.9% of the votes cast. The second-placed candidate was independent Mladen Bojanić, who received support from most opposition parties, obtaining 33.4% of the votes. Also in the local elections held in May that year, the DPS was successful in 10 of 12 municipalities, performing better than in previous local elections.</p>
          <p>
      Anti-Government protests erupted again in February 2019, prompted by allegations of bribery. Duško Knežević, a Montenegrin businessman formerly loyal to Đukanović, who had fled to the United Kingdom after being charged with corruption, released a video in January in which Knežević appeared to provide a €100,000 bribe to the Mayor of Podgorica (and senior DPS member) in 2016. Thousands participated in the protests, which were organized by a civic group with the support of opposition parties. Further mass demonstrations began in late 2019, continuing until mid-2020, this time precipitated by the Government’s proposal of new legislation regulating the state’s relationship with the religious community. The so-called Law on Freedom of Religion envisaged the nationalization of property for which religious communities could not prove ownership before 1918 (see 
      <i>Ethnic Identity, Minorities and Foreign Relations</i>
      ). Fearing the expropriation of some of its churches, the Srpska Pravoslavna Crkva (SPC—Serbian Orthodox Church) headed weekly prayer marches (`litije’), which were joined by a great number of citizens, opposition politicians, representatives of other religious communities, and even lower-ranking members of the DPS. As the 
      <!--?-->
      SPC abstained from a formal alliance with any political party, the demonstrations became an outlet for all sorts for political grievances and discontent with the DPS.
    </p>
          <p>On 30 August 2020 opposition parties narrowly defeated the DPS for the first time in the country’s history. The DPS remained the first-placed party, with 30 seats (and 35.1% of the votes cast), while a conservative and Serb nationalist coalition led by the DF and the PzP, Za Budućnost Crne Gore (ZBCG—For the Future of Montenegro), secured 27 seats (32.6%), a centrist coalition led by the DCG and DEMOS, Mir je Naša Nacija (MNN—Peace is Our Nation), 10 seats (12.5%), and the URA, heading the Crno na Bijelo (Black and White) coalition, four seats (5.5%). The two social-democratic parties, the SDCG and the SDP, obtained three seats (4.1%) and two seats (3.1%), respectively, whereas the remainder of the seats were received by minority parties, including the BS, with three seats (4.0%), and two Albanian coalitions, with one seat each.</p>
          <p>The three opposition coalitions shared little common ground, except for their commitment to oust the DPS and Đukanović. The three main opposition blocs, which together held 41 out of 80 seats, formed a Government in December 2020, headed by Zdravko Krivokapić, the leader of the ZBCG, containing primarily non-party figures. The government parties agreed on the continuation of Montenegro’s NATO membership, EU integration and general foreign policy. In addition, they quickly reversed the controversial law on religion. However, this Government was only shortlived. The coalition partners came increasingly into conflict during the course of 2021 and in early 2022, resulting in the adoption of a motion of no confidence on 4 February. A new minority Government under the premiership of Dritan Abazović, the leader of the URA and hitherto Deputy Prime Minister, was approved by the Assembly on 28 April. The new Government also included members of the SNP, the SDP and minority parties, and was supported by the former ruling DPS. However, this Government was also brought to an end by a vote of no confidence on 20 August (remaining in office on an interim basis), after signing a controversial agreement with the SPC (see below). Ðukanović dissolved the Assembly on 16 March 2023 and scheduled new legislative elections for 11 June.</p>
          <p>On 19 March 2023 the presidential election was held in Montenegro. Đukanović himself campaigned for re-election, and was challenged by six other candidates, including DF leader Mandić, Bečić of the DCG, Draginja Vuksanović of the SDP, and Jakov Milatović of the newly formed party, Evropa Sad! (ES!—Europe Now!). ES! had emerged from within the first post-DPS Government headed by Krivokapić, and was named after an economic programme, including wage raises, that was launched by that Government shortly before its removal in early 2022. Campaigning on a populist, wide-ranging platform, ES! rapidly attracted a broad membership, reflected by its strong performance in the October municipal elections, when it even secured the mayoralty in Podgorica. Nevertheless, the party’s exceptional debut in the 2023 presidential election came to many as a surprise. In the first round, Milatović won 28.9% of the votes, while Đukanović was placed first with 35.4%. In the second round, however, the 36-year-old newcomer, Milatović, succeeded in gaining most of the votes cast for the candidates who had been eliminated in the first round, obtaining 58.9% and thus becoming the first ever President who was not a member of the DPS. In the aftermath of the presidential election, Đukanović resigned from the leadership of the DPS. It has yet to be seen to what extent Đukanović will continue to steer party politics from behind the scenes, but his participation in the DPS campaign for the June 2023 legislative elections indicates that he has remained an influential figure within the party.</p>
          <p>The successful entry of ES! has somewhat transformed inter-party competition in Montenegro. Most parties responded to Milatović’s victory in the presidential election by echoing the economic platform of ES! in their campaign for the June 2023 legislative elections, addressing issues such as pensions, social welfare or a raise in the average income. ES! was also victorious at the pre-term elections on 11 June, winning 25.5% of the votes cast and 24 seats in the Assembly, while the DPS-led coalition took 23.2% of the votes and 21 seats.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section id="ME.15945375381" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Ethnic Identity, Minorities and Foreign Relations</heading>
          <p>The conflict over the Constitution brought tensions between Montenegrin and Serb identity to the foreground. The principal grounds for conflict were the state symbols (whether these emphasized a distinct Montenegrin identity or reaffirmed close ties to Serbia). In addition, tensions focused on the name of the language. Whereas the Government was moving towards naming the language Montenegrin, the opposition preferred the designation Serbian. A second conflict arose between the SPC and the Crnogorska Pravoslavna Crkva (CPC—Montenegrin Orthodox Church). The CPC was founded in 1993, but has been recognized neither by mainstream orthodox churches nor by the Montenegrin state. The CPC claimed to re-establish continuity with the Orthodox Church in Montenegro that lost its autocephaly (effectively, independence) after the First World War and sought the restitution of Church property from the SPC. Prior to state independence, the SPC in Montenegro, under the leadership of the Metropolitan of Montenegro and the Littoral Amfilohije (Radović), advocated Serb nationalist positions, whereas the CPC, under the Archbishop of Cetinje and Metropolitan of Montenegro, Mihailo (Dedeić), supported political autonomy and religious autocephaly. No reliable statistics exist, but opinion polls suggest that a majority of Orthodox Montenegrins belong to the SPC. Relations between the SPC and the Government continued to be strained. In mid-2019 tensions increased after the Government adopted a draft Law on Freedom of Religion. Under the law, the property rights of religious communities were to be regulated, and all religious objects formerly owned by the kingdom of Montenegro before 1918 registered as state property unless religious communities were able to provide evidence of ownership. The SPC feared that the law would potentially enable the state to expropriate its churches. Around the same time, President Đukanović began to favour the idea of an autocephalous CPC during 2018-19, as part of a DPS nation-building campaign.</p>
          <p>The new law on religion was adopted in December 2019. Prior to its adoption, some opposition deputies staged violent disturbances to disrupt the sessions of the Assembly, while the SPC mobilized mass protests in Podgorica. Large protests subsequently continued in Podgorica and other towns. The protests played an important role in galvanizing support for the August 2020 legislative elections, which led to the opposition’s victory, although the SPC did not endorse any political party. In October Metropolitan Amfilohije, who had headed the SPC in Montenegro since 1990, died as a result of COVID-19. He was succeeded in May 2021 by Joanikije (Mićović). The official inauguration of Metropolitan Joanikije in the historic city of Cetinje in September was marred by violent protests (reportedly supported by the DPS), which sought to prevent the ceremony. Since the electoral defeat of the DPS in August 2020, concerns have been expressed about an intensification of relations between the Church and state. For example, the Krivokapić Government included many figures affiliated with the SPC. Similar concerns have been voiced about the new ES! party. In July 2022 the Abazović Government reached an agreement with the SPC that required the state to restitute Church property, allowed for Orthodox religious education in public schools, and also required the approval of the SPC for the construction of Orthodox churches.</p>
          <p>A major related challenge has been the status of minorities. The Albanian, Bosniak and Croat minorities (comprising 5%, 12% and 1% of the population, respectively, according to the 2011 census) have mainly supported the DPS since 1998, when it distanced itself from Milošević. In addition, minority groups predominantly supported the referendum for Montenegrin independence in 2006. Whereas in the early 1990s the DPS had promoted policies hostile towards minorities, this trend has changed since 1998. Representatives of national minorities have since then headed the ministry responsible for national minorities, and electoral legislation favouring minority representation has been adopted. A comprehensive law on minority affairs was adopted shortly before the referendum in May 2006. However, in July the Constitutional Court declared parts of the law relating to the designation of reserved parliamentary seats for minorities unconstitutional. A revised legal framework was adopted in 2011, introducing consultative councils for minorities and lower electoral thresholds for all main minority groups, except for Roma. As part of the constitutional negotiations, the ethnic Albanian community was offered a referendum on the formation of a new urban municipality in Tuzi, administered as part of the larger Podgorica municipality. Although inter-ethnic tensions are generally low, they increased prior to a population census, which took place in April 2011. The census was accompanied by mass campaigns in the media, as well as by political parties and minority organizations seeking to mobilize their respective constituencies. The defeat of the DPS in 2020 was accompanied by an increase in polarization and some isolated ethnically motivated incidents, raising concerns among minority groups about the return of a more hostile environment.</p>
          <p>Population censuses demonstrate fluctuations between the proportions of self-identified Montenegrins and Serbs. In 1991 61.9% of the population identified as Montenegrin and 9.3% as Serb. The proportion of Serbs increased to 32.0% in 2003 and to 28.7% in 2011, whereas 43.2% and 45.0% identified as Montenegrin in 2003 and 2011, respectively. These shifts illustrate the ambiguity of both identities. Fluctuations have been connected to the politicization over statehood, relations with Serbia, and most recently the issue of the Orthodox Church. The small Roma community remains marginalized, as is the case elsewhere in the region. In 2021 Montenegro hosted around 12,000 refugees from other former Yugoslav countries, mostly Roma from Kosovo. In terms of migration movements from the Middle East, Montenegro primarily acts as a transit country.</p>
          <p>
      Domestic economic and political reforms are often stipulated by the process of Euro-Atlantic integration. Euro-Atlantic integration and good neighbourly relations have been the priority of every government since Montenegro’s independence. In March 2007 the Government signed an SAA with the EU (which entered into force in May 2010), and on 15 December 2008 Montenegro formally applied for EU membership. Visa requirements for Montenegrin citizens travelling to the Schengen zone of EU and other European countries were abolished in December 2009. Montenegro became a candidate country for EU membership in December 2010 and accession negotiations officially began in late June 2012. Although the EU has praised Montenegro’s reform endeavours, the high rate of corruption, the prevalence of organized crime, a lack of rule of law, and the politicization of the judiciary and the media remain obstacles to EU integration. These shortcomings are largely the result of the longstanding predominance of the DPS, which allowed the party to model institutional rules to its own benefit, as well as to the advantage of its loyal business elite. Thus, some EU member states regard the accession of Montenegro with scepticism. By mid-2020 all 33 chapters had been opened in the negotiations with the EU, and three chapters had been closed provisionally. However, reform progress has remained limited since the ousting of the DPS, largely due to infighting in the preceding governments, as well as high levels of turnover in public administration, which caused a loss of expertise. All major political parties, as well as the majority of the population, favour EU integration, with the exception of some smaller Eurosceptic parties. Among the larger political organizations, only the pro-Serbian DF foster
      
      ed anti-Western sentiments, rejecting NATO membership. Both the Krivokapić Government and the Abazović Government remained committed to NATO membership and the objective of EU accession.
    </p>
          <p>On 5 June 2017 Montenegro formally acceded to NATO, becoming the Alliance’s 29th member. The legislative elections in October 2016 had been largely regarded as a test for the Government’s Euro-Atlantic course, and the victory of the ruling DPS and other pro-NATO parties paved the way towards membership. The last ratifying country was the USA, which endorsed NATO membership for Montenegro in April 2017. The ratification of NATO membership was not subject to a referendum in Montenegro and was accompanied by public tensions, although support for membership has risen since 2017. As a result of Montenegro’s membership, its airspace has been secured with NATO patrols.</p>
          <p>Montenegro’s EU integration has been somewhat slower, as corruption and organized crime have consistently marred the country’s accession process. In 2009 the Serbian authorities began investigations into the activities of Darko Šarić, a Montenegrin with Serbian citizenship, who was alleged to have smuggled more than two metric tons of cocaine to Europe from South America. He was found to own a large number of properties and businesses connected to money laundering in both Serbia and Montenegro. In early 2010 Serbia issued an arrest warrant against Šarić, who was suspected of being in hiding in Montenegro. Šarić was arrested in South America in March 2014 and extradited to Montenegro, and subsequently to Serbia, where he was sentenced to a prison term of 20 years. Meanwhile, in June 2012 the US Administration placed a Kosovo Albanian businessman, Naser Kelmendi, on its `blacklist’ of sanctioned states. Kelmendi has been linked to investments in Montenegro’s coastal town of Ulcinj. Conflict between two rival organized crime groups from the coastal towns of Škaljari and nearby Kavač, in the region of Kotor, have resulted in a number of murders in Montenegro and Serbia, as well as in Greece, Spain and Austria. In February 2020 a ship transporting five tons of cocaine, which was linked to Montenegro, was impounded in the Caribbean, and in May 500 kg of cocaine were seized on a Montenegrin ship in Hamburg (Germany), highlighting the wide scope of Montenegro’s organized crime networks. Between 2012 and mid-2019 149 people were assassinated in Montenegro and Serbia as a result of organized crime, one-third of them in Montenegro.</p>
          <p>Moreover, high-level corruption has remained a serious issue in Montenegro. The most high-ranking corruption case has been connected to Svetozar Marović, a former DPS senior official. In December 2015, Marović was detained on charges of abuse of office and malpractice in the city administration of Budva. He accepted a plea bargain arrangement in 2016, under which he would serve a prison sentence. However, Marović subsequently fled to Serbia and became resident there, despite requests from Montenegro for his extradition. In addition, the former Mayor of Bar, Žarko Pavićević, also a senior DPS member, was arrested in late 2015 on corruption charges. The first post-DPS Government of December 2020 made the fight against corruption a priority. The first high-profile arrest in the country took place in April 2022, when a former President of the Supreme Court, Vesna Medenica, was detained for abuse of office in connection with cigarette and drug trafficking organized by her son. In April 2023 the Mayor of Budva, Milo Božović, was arrested on suspicion of drug trafficking and creating a criminal organization. Apart from these and other high-profile cases, progress on addressing the structural causes of organized crime in Montenegro has remained low.</p>
          <p>
      Since the late 1990s Montenegro has maintained good relations with the USA, aligning with US policy on Kosovo’s independence, while pursuing NATO membership and greater distance from Russia in the context of conflict in eastern Ukraine (following Russia’s annexation of the Crimean peninsula from Ukraine in early 2014). Montenegro also joined the EU sanctions against Russia in 2014. As a result, relations with Russia have become increasingly strained. Russia sought to apply pressure on Montenegro not to join NATO, imposing sanctions on Montenegrin goods. The role of Russia in the alleged coup attempt on the day of the October 2016 elections remains unclear. In a first instance ruling in May 2019, the Higher Court sentenced 13 people to prison terms of up to 15 years for conspiring to commit `terrorist acts’, including two Russian intelligence officers 
      <i>in absentia</i>
      , opposition leaders Mandić and Knežević of the DF (who each received five-year prison terms) and nine Serbian nationals. Saša Sinđelić, a protected witness, had renounced his testimony shorty before the verdict and left the country. The verdict was disputed by the opposition, claiming it was politically motivated. Russian citizens remain the largest real estate investors in Montenegro, particularly in the tourism sector, despite the strains in bilateral relations. Following the Russian invasion of Ukraine on 24 February 2022, Montenegro officially joined the EU’s wide-ranging sanctions against Russia (but subsequently incurred EU criticism for delays in implementing the measures, including a ban on broadcasts by Russian state-controlled media outlets).
    </p>
          <p>The People’s Republic of China has also become more engaged in Montenegro, with a Chinese company securing the contract for the construction of a highway between the port of Bar and Belgrade, which began in May 2015. The project, funded by loans from China EximBank, raised concerns over transparency and high debts for the country. The new Government of December 2020 sought to refinance the project in 2021, owing to concerns about its inability to repay the credits.</p>
          <p>Montenegro, together with the former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia (now North Macedonia), recognized Kosovo’s independence in October 2008. Montenegro has made the opening of embassies conditional on the recognition of the Montenegrin minority in Kosovo and their representation in parliament. Montenegro and Kosovo signed an agreement demarcating the mutual border in 2015, ending minor border disputes. The agreement was ratified in 2018, after a delay of nearly three years, due to obstruction by the Kosovo parliament. The Montenegrin Government’s decision to recognize Kosovo adversely affected relations with Serbia, which responded with the immediate expulsion of Montenegro’s ambassador to Serbia. Relations between Đukanović and the Serbian Prime Minister (and subsequently President), Aleksandar Vučić, became closer in 2014, and Serbia co-operated, at least initially, with Montenegro in investigating the alleged coup against the Montenegrin Government in October 2016. While Đukanović and Vučić maintain personal ties, there are often tensions between the two countries, in particular with regard to the position of the SPC and dissenting views on the past. During the centenary commemorations for the unification of Montenegro with Serbia shortly before the establishment of Yugoslavia in 1918, the Montenegrin authorities barred four Serb citizens from entering the country, including historian Čedomir Antić and writer Matija Bečković. Points of contention also included the autocephalous CPC, the Montenegrin law on religion (see above) and border closures during the COVID-19 pandemic. In June 2021 the Assembly approved the dismissal of Vladimir Leposavić as Minister of Justice and Human and Minority Rights, after he disputed international tribunal rulings classifying the 1995 massacre of Bosniaks by Bosnian Serb forces in Srebrenica, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as genocide. His dismissal was followed by a parliamentary resolution which prohibited genocide denial. These decisions drew hostile reactions from Serb nationalist media and intellectuals, as well as from the Serbian Minister of Internal Affairs, Aleksandar Vulin.</p>
     </gen-section>
</country-survey>