<?xml version="1.0"?>
<bibl-ref bibl-dtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" id="SL61858" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="61857" slsdocid="56686" slsdocty="bibl-section bibl-dtd"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
          
          <bibl-section id="CZ.DIR.715" id-root="cz.dir" iso="cz" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="BIBL-REF" usage="casee">
               <heading>Bibliography</heading>
               <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">The Czech Republic</alt-heading>
               <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Bibliography</alt-heading>
               <bibl-list>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Agnew, H. L. 
          <i>The Czechs and the Lands of the Bohemian Crown</i>
          . Stanford, CA, Hoover Institution Press, 2004.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Balík, S., Hloušek, V., Kopeček, L., et al. 
          <i>Czech Politics: From the West to East and Back Again</i>
          . Leverkusen, Verlag Barbara Budrich, 2017.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Bažant, J., Bažantová, N. and Starn, F. (Eds). 
          <i>The Czech Reader: History, Culture, Politics</i>
          . Durham, NC, Duke University Press, 2011.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Bolton, J. 
          <i>Worlds of Dissent: Charter 77, the Plastic People of the Universe, and Czech Culture under Communism</i>
          . Cambridge, MA, Harvard University Press, 2012.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Bryant, C. 
          <i>Prague: Belonging in the Modern City</i>
          . Cambridge, MA, Harvard University Press, 2021.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Bureš, O. 
          <i>Private Security Companies: Transforming Politics and Security in the Czech Republic</i>
          . London, Palgrave Macmillan, 2016.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Cabada, L. 
          <i>Intellectuals and the Communist Idea: The Search for a New Way in Czech Lands from 1890 to 1938</i>
          . Lanham, MD, Lexington Books, 2010.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Čapková, K. (Trans. Paton, D. and Paton, M.). 
          <i>Czechs, Germans, Jews: National Identity and the Jews of Bohemia</i>
          . New York, Berghahn Books, 2012.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Charvát, P. 
          <i>The Emergence of the Bohemian State (East Central and Eastern Europe in the Middle Ages)</i>
          . Leiden, Brill, 2010.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          David, R. 
          <i>Communists and their Victims: The Quest for Justice in the Czech Republic</i>
          . Philadelphia, PA, University of Pennsylvania Press, 2018.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          David, Z. V. 
          <i>Realism, Tolerance and Liberalism in the Czech National Awakening: Legacies of the Bohemian Reformation</i>
          . Washington, DC, Woodrow Wilson Center Press, 2010.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Donert, C. 
          <i>The Rights of the Roma: The Struggle for Citizenship in Postwar Czechoslovakia</i>
          . Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 2017.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Fawn, R. and Hochman, J. 
          <i>Historical Dictionary of the Czech Lands</i>
          . Lanham, MD, Scarecrow Press, 2010.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Fric, P. 
          <i>et al</i>
          . 
          <i>Czech Elites and General Public: Leadership, Cohesion and Democracy.</i>
           Prague, Karolinum, 2011.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Grant, J. E. 
          <i>For the Common Good: The Bohemian Land Law and the Beginning of the Hussite Revolution</i>
          . Leiden, Brill, 2015.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Havlík, V., Hloušek, V. and Kaniok, P. 
          <i>Europeanised Defiance: Czech Euroscepticism since 2004</i>
          . Leverkusen, Verlag Barbara Budrich, 2017.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Houžvička, V. 
          <i>Czechs and Germans, 1848-2004: The Sudeten Question and the Transformation of Central Europe</i>
          . Prague, Karolinum, 2014.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Hudek, A., Kopeček, M., and Mervart, J. 
          <i>Czechoslovakism</i>
          . Abingdon, Routledge, 2022.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry id="BIBL.ENTRY.1058783281" type="FULL">
          King, J. 
          <i>Budweisers into Czechs and Germans: A Local History of Bohemian Politics, 1848-1948</i>
          . Princeton, NJ, Princeton University Press, 2002.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Krakovsky, R. 
          <i>State and Society in Communist Czechoslovakia</i>
          . London, I. B. Tauris, 2018.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Kraus, M. and Stanger, A. (Eds). 
          <i>Irreconcilable Differences: Explaining Czechoslovakia’s Dissolution</i>
          . Lanham, MD, Rowman &amp; Littlefield, 2000.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Lukes, I. 
          <i>Czechoslovakia Between Stalin and Hitler: The Diplomacy of Edvard Beneš in the 1930s</i>
          . New York, Oxford University Press, 1996.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          McDermott, K. 
          <i>Communist Czechoslovakia, 1945-89: A Political and Social History</i>
          . New York, Palgrave, 2015.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Mahoney, W. M. 
          <i>The History of the Czech Republic and Slovakia</i>
          . Santa Barbara, CA, Greenwood, 2011.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Nadelsky, N. 
          <i>Defining the Sovereign Community: National Identity, Individual Rights and Minority Membership in the Czech and Slovak Republics</i>
          . Philadelphia, PA, University of Philadelphia Press, 2009.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Neuman M. 
          <i>Too Small To Make An Impact?: The Czech Republic’s Influence on the European Union’s Foreign Policy.</i>
           Frankfurt am Main, Peter Lang Edition, 2015.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Neville, P. 
          <i>Beneš &amp; Masaryk: Czechoslovakia (Makers of the Modern World)</i>
           . London, Haus, 2010.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Pánek, J., Tůma, O. et al. 
          <i>A History of the Czech Lands</i>
          . Prague, Karolinum Press, 2019.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Přibáň, J. 
          <i>The Defence of Constitutionalism: The Czech Question in Post-National Europe</i>
          . Prague, Karolinum Press, 2017.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Scherpereel, J. A. 
          <i>Governing the Czech Republic and Slovakia: Between State Socialism and the European Union</i>
          . Boulder, CO, FirstForumPress, 2009.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Shepherd, R.&#160;H.&#160;E. 
          <i>Czechoslovakia: The Velvet Revolution and Beyond</i>
          . New York, St Martin’s Press, 2000.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Simon, Jeffrey. 
          <i>NATO and the Czech and Slovak Republics: A Comparative Study in Civil-Military Relations</i>
          . Lanham, MD, Rowman &amp; Littlefield, 2003.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Smith, S. (Ed.). 
          <i>Local Communities and Post-Communist Transformation: Czechoslovakia, the Czech Republic and Slovakia</i>
          . London, Routledge, 2003.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Sniegoň, T. 
          <i>Vanished History: the Holocaust in Czech and Slovak Historical Culture</i>
          . New York, Berghahn Books, 2014.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Stein, E. 
          <i>Czecho/Slovakia: Ethnic Conflict, Constitutional Fissure, Negotiated Breakup</i>
          . Ann Arbor, MI, University of Michigan Press, 1997.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Stolarik, M. 
          <i>The Czech and Slovak Republics: Twenty Years of Independence, 1993-2013</i>
          . Budapest, Central European University Press, 2016.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry id="BIBL.ENTRY.1058783900" type="FULL">
          Tampke, J. 
          <i>Czech-German Relations and the Politics of Central Europe: From Bohemia to the EU</i>
          . London, Palgrave Macmillan, 2002.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Vaněk, M. and Mücke, P. 
          <i>Velvet Revolutions: An Oral History of Czech Society</i>
          . New York, Oxford University Press, 2016.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Vondorova, J., et al. 
          <i>The Prague Spring, 1968</i>
          . New York and Budapest, Central European University Press, 1998.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Wein, J. 
          <i>A History of Czechs and Jews: A Slavic Jerusalem.</i>
           Abingdon, Routledge, 2015.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Weiss, T. 
          <i>Promoting National Priorities in EU Foreign Policy: The Czech Republic’s Foreign Policy in the EU.</i>
           Abingdon, Routledge, 2017.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Williams, K. 
          <i>The Prague Spring and its Aftermath: Czechoslovak Politics 1968-1970</i>
          . Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 1997.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Žantovsky, M. 
          <i>Havel: A Life</i>
          . London, Atlantic Books, 2015.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Židek, L. 
          <i>From Central Planning to the Market: The Transformation of the Czech Economy, 1989-2004</i>
          . New York, Central European University Press, 2017.
        </bibl-entry>
               </bibl-list>
          </bibl-section>
     </bibl-ref>
