<?xml version="1.0"?>
<directory id="YU.DIR" id-root="rs.dir" iso="rs" name-markup-type="STANDARD" original-filename="yugdir1.rtf" print-style="PGWIDTH" usage="ewyb casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <dir-section id="RS.DIR.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
          <heading>Directory</heading>
          <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb casee">Serbia</alt-heading>
          <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb casee">Directory</alt-heading>
          <dir-sectref dir-sectiondtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" id="SL289540" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="289539" slsdocid="288354" slsdocty="dir-section dir-sectiondtd"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
               
               <dir-section id="RS.DIR.2" id-root="rs.dir" iso="rs" sect-type="constitution" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="casee">
                    <heading>The Constitution</heading>
                    <p id="RS.DIR.2-1">Serbia officially declared itself to be the successor state to the State Union of Serbia and Montenegro on 5 June 2006. A new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was endorsed by national referendum on 28-29 October and entered into force on 8 November. Under the Constitution, the Province of Kosovo and Metohija (which declared its independence from Serbia, as the Republic of Kosovo, on 17 February 2008) is an integral part of Serbia and has substantial autonomy within Serbia. The Constitution's main provisions are summarized below.</p>
                    <dir-section id="RS.DIR.2-2.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Principles</heading>
                         <p>The Republic of Serbia is a state of the Serb people and of all citizens who live in the Republic, based on the rule of law and social justice, principles of human rights and freedoms, and commitment to European principles and values. Sovereignty is vested in all citizens, who exercise it through referendums, people's initiatives, and by way of their freely elected representatives. Judicial power is independent. The territory of the Republic of Serbia is indivisible. The Republic of Serbia is a secular state. The right of citizens to provincial autonomy and local self-government is subject only to the terms of constitutionality and legality. The Constitution provides guarantees for human and minority rights and freedoms. There is no death penalty in the Republic of Serbia. Criminal prosecution or punishment for war crimes, genocide, or crimes against humanity is not subject to a statute of limitations. The economic system in the Republic of Serbia is based on the principles of the market economy. The official language is Serbian and the official script is Cyrillic. The official use of other languages and scripts shall be regulated by law.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="RS.DIR.2-3" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Organization of Government</heading>
                         <p>The Narodna Skupština (National Assembly) is the supreme representative body in the Republic of Serbia. The National Assembly comprises 250 deputies, who are directly elected for a term of four years. The National Assembly adopts decisions by a majority vote. The President of the Republic may dissolve the National Assembly, in response to a request by the Government. The Government may not propose the dissolution of the National Assembly if a proposal has been submitted for a vote of `no confidence' in the Government. The National Assembly shall be dissolved if it fails to elect the Government within 90 days from the day of its inauguration.</p>
                         <p>The President of the Republic, who is directly elected for a term of five years, nominates the Prime Minister for approval by the National Assembly. In accordance with the law, the President commands the army, and appoints and dismisses army officers. Executive power is vested in the Government, which is proposed to the National Assembly by the nominee for Prime Minister.</p>
                         <p>Certain affairs of public administration may be delegated to the bodies of the provinces or to local self-government. The Civic Defender, who shall be elected by the National Assembly, is empowered to protect citizens' rights and monitor the work of public administrative bodies.</p>
                         <p>The Supreme Court of Cassation, which is the Supreme Court of Serbia, is the highest court in the Republic; its President is elected for a five-year term by the National Assembly. The 11-member High Judicial Council is an independent body, which provides for and guarantees the independence and autonomy of courts and judges. The National Assembly elects judges on the proposal of the High Judicial Council, while the High Judicial Council elects permanent judges. The 15-member Constitutional Court protects constitutionality and legality, as well as human and minority rights and freedoms.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="RS.DIR.2-4" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Territorial Organization</heading>
                         <p>Citizens have the right to provincial autonomy and local self-government. Autonomous provinces and local self-government units have the status of legal entities. The Assembly (Skupština) is the supreme body of the autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. In those autonomous provinces and local self-government units with an ethnically diverse population, the representation of national minorities in the relevant Assembly is assured. New autonomous provinces may be established, and existing ones may be revoked or merged, following the proceedings envisaged for amending the Constitution and subject to approval in a referendum. An autonomous province shall have direct revenue for financing its competencies.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="RS.DIR.2-5" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Amending the Constitution</heading>
                         <p>Proposals to amend the Constitution may be submitted by at least one-third of the total number of parliamentary deputies, by the President of the Republic, by the Government or by at least 150,000 voters. Any amendment to the Constitution requires the approval of at least two-thirds of the total number of deputies in the National Assembly. Additionally, at the request of the National Assembly, amendments may be subject to approval by a national referendum.</p>
                    </dir-section>
               </dir-section>
          </dir-sectref>
          </dir-section>
</directory>