<?xml version="1.0"?>
<chronology id="SK.CHRON" id-root="sk" original-filename="unknown" region="CASEE" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>Chronology</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Slovakia</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Chronology</alt-heading>
     <chron-list>
          <chron-entry from-date="0400-01-01" to-date="0699-12-31">
               <chron-head>5th-7th centuries</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Slavic tribes migrated to central Europe from the eastern plains.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="0830-01-01" to-date="0830-12-31">
               <chron-head>830</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Great Moravian Empire was established, eventually including Slovakia and Bohemia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="0907-01-01" to-date="0907-12-31">
               <chron-head>907</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Hungarians destroyed the Moravian forces at the Battle of Pressburg (now Bratislava or, in Hungarian, Pozsony).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1000-01-01" to-date="1099-12-31">
               <chron-head>11th century</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Slovakia was incorporated into Hungary, although parts were subsequently claimed by Bohemia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1491-01-01" to-date="1491-12-31">
               <chron-head>1491</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Peace of Pressburg acknowledged Habsburg claims to the throne of Hungary.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1526-01-01" to-date="1526-12-31">
               <chron-head>1526</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Austrian Habsburgs inherited their claim to Hungary upon the death of Louis II, at the battle of Mohács. The Kingdom was partitioned between the victorious Ottomans, the principality of Transylvania and the Habsburgs, who retained control of the Slovak territories; Pozsony became the capital of Hungary.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1848-01-01" to-date="1848-12-31">
               <chron-head>1848</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A Slovak rebellion against Hungarian rule failed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1861-01-01" to-date="1861-12-31">
               <chron-head>1861</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A National Congress issued the Memorandum of the Slovak Nation, demanding autonomy.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1867-01-01" to-date="1867-12-31">
               <chron-head>1867</chron-head>
               <chron-text>
        The 
        <i>Ausgleich</i>
         (Compromise) creating the Habsburg Dual Monarchy of Austria-Hungary restored full Hungarian control over Slovakia; a policy of magyarization’ soon commenced.
      </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1918-10-28">
               <chron-head>28 October 1918</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Republic of Czechoslovakia was proclaimed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1938-09-29">
               <chron-head>29 September 1938</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Munich Agreement between the United Kingdom, France, Italy and Germany permitted the cession of the Czechoslovak territories known as Sudetenland to Germany.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1938-10-01" to-date="1938-10-31">
               <chron-head>October 1938</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Slovakia and Carpatho-Ruthenia gained autonomy; the fascist Hlinkova Slovenská Ľudová Strana-Strana Slovenskej Národnej Jednoty (HSĽS-SSNJ—Hlinka’s Slovak National People’s Party-Party of Slovak National Unity), led by Jozef Tiso, was declared the only authorized party in Slovakia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1938-11-02">
               <chron-head>2 November 1938</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Hungary annexed parts of southern Slovakia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1939-03-14">
               <chron-head>14 March 1939</chron-head>
               <chron-text>One day before Nazi Germany began to occupy the Czech Lands, its leader, Adolf Hitler, agreed to a separate Slovak state.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1941-01-01" to-date="1941-12-31">
               <chron-head>1941</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Tiso regime adopted a Jewish Code’, prior to commencing a policy of extermination of Jews.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1944-08-29">
               <chron-head>29 August 1944</chron-head>
               <chron-text>An uprising against HSĽS-SSNJ rule began, but by October German troops had suppressed it.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1945-04-01" to-date="1945-04-30">
               <chron-head>April 1945</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Government-in-Exile returned to Czechoslovakia; it agreed to limited Slovak autonomy. In June Carpatho-Ruthenia was ceded to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1946-05-16">
               <chron-head>16 May 1946</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In national elections the Komunistická Strana Československa (KSČ—Czechoslovak Communist Party) won 38% of the votes cast; in Slovakia, it won only 30%, with the Democratic Party winning 62%. In 1947 Gustáv Husák organized a communist coup’ in Slovakia, claiming that many members of the Democratic Party were HSĽS-SSNJ sympatisers. By June 1948 the communists had effectively seized power in the whole country and introduced a new Constitution. In 1954 Husák himself was removed from office and imprisoned.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1960-01-01" to-date="1960-12-31">
               <chron-head>1960</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Constitution formally limited Slovak autonomy, removing legislative authority from the Slovenska Národná Rada (Slovakian National Council). In the same year Husák was released from prison; his conviction was overturned and his membership of the KSČ restored in 1963.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1968-01-01" to-date="1968-01-31">
               <chron-head>January 1968</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Alexander Dubček, leader of the Communist Party of Slovakia, became First Secretary of the KSČ and initiated the so-called Prague Spring reforms.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1968-08-01" to-date="1968-08-31">
               <chron-head>August 1968</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The countries of the Warsaw Pact (except Romania) sent troops to invade Czechoslovakia; Dubček and other government and party leaders were abducted.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1969-01-01">
               <chron-head>1 January 1969</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A federal system of government was intro­duced, with the country comprising the Slovak and Czech Socialist Republics. In April Husák succeeded Dubček as First Secretary of the KSČ. (Husák additionally became President of Czechoslovakia in 1975.)</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1977-01-01">
               <chron-head>1977</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A group of Czechoslovak dissidents pub­lished the Charter 77’ manifesto, demanding an end to the abuse of civil and political rights.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1987-01-01" to-date="1987-12-31">
               <chron-head>1987</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Miloš Jakeš replaced Husák as leader of the KSČ.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1989-11-01" to-date="1989-11-30">
               <chron-head>November 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Opposition activists formed the Verejnosť Proti Násiliu (VPN—Public Against Violence) coalition. Its leadership and that of its Czech counterpart, Občanské Fórum (OF—Civic Forum), began discussions with the communist leadership, as protests intensified nationwide. Later in the month the Federal Assembly abolished the KSČ’s constitutional monopoly on power.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1989-12-01" to-date="1989-12-31">
               <chron-head>December 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new federal Government, with a majority of non-communists, was announced. Dubček was elected Chairman of the Federal Assembly. Husák resigned as President and was replaced by the dis­sident Czech playwright, Václav Havel.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1990-04-01" to-date="1990-04-30">
               <chron-head>April 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The country was renamed the Czech and Slovak Federative Republic.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1990-06-01" to-date="1990-06-30">
               <chron-head>June 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>VPN (in Slovakia) and OF (in the Czech Lands) won an overall majority in elections to the Federal Assembly. In elections to the Slovakian National Council, VPN was the largest party, with 48 of the 150 seats; Vladimír Mečiar of VPN was elected premier of Slovakia. Constitutional changes in December delimited the powers of the federal, Czech and Slovakian Governments.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1991-03-01" to-date="1991-03-31">
               <chron-head>March 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Mečiar left VPN, advocating greater autonomy for Slovakia. As demonstrations supporting Slovak independence ensued, President Havel was attacked by crowds when he visited Bratislava. In April The Presidium of the Slovakian National Council dismissed Mečiar and seven members of his cabinet, who had also left VPN; Ján Čarnogurský, leader of the Kresťanskodemokratické Hnutie (KDH—Christian Democratic Movement), became premier. In June Mečiar was elected Chairman of a new party, the Hnutie za Demokratické Slovensko (HZDS—Movement for a Democratic Slovakia).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1992-06-05" to-date="1992-06-06">
               <chron-head>5-6 June 1992</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Elections to the federal and republican legislatures took place; the HZDS emerged as the dominant Slo­vakian party, winning some 37% of the votes cast and 74 seats in the Slovakian National Council. The former commu­nists, the Strana Demokratickej Ľavice (SDĽ—Party of the Democratic Left), won 29 seats, the KDH 18 and the Slovenská Národná Strana (SNS—Slovak National Party) 15, and a coalition of ethnic Hungarian parties 14; Mečiar was elected to lead an HZDS-dominated Slovakian Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1992-07-17">
               <chron-head>17 July 1992</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Slovakian National Council approved a declaration of sovereignty. In September it adopted a new republican Constitution, which was to enter into effect upon the dissolution of Czechoslovakia. (The Federal Assembly narrowly approved such legislation in November.)</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1993-01-01">
               <chron-head>1 January 1993</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Czech and Slovak Republics each became sovereign states. In February separate currencies were introduced. The renamed Slovakian parliament, the Národná Rada Slovenskej Republiky (National Council of the Slovak Republic), elected a national President, Michal Kováč, deputy leader of the HZDS.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>June 1993</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Slovakia became a member of the Council of Europe and finalized an association agreement with the European Community (EC, now European Union—EU).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1993-10-01" to-date="1993-10-31">
               <chron-head>October 1993</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The HZDS and the SNS agreed to form a new coalition Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1994-03-01" to-date="1994-03-31">
               <chron-head>March 1994</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The National Council approved a motion of no confidence in Mečiar’s administration. A new Government was formed, including representatives of six former opposition parties and groupings, led by Jozef Moravčík of the Demokratická Únia Slovenska (DEÚS—Democratic Union of Slovakia).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1994-09-30" to-date="1994-10-01">
               <chron-head>30 September-1 October 1994</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a general election the HZDS, in alliance with an agrarian party, won 61 seats. An SDĽ-led alliance secured 18 seats, a coalition of Hungarian parties 17, the KDH 17, the DEÚS 15, the Združenie Robotníkov Slovenska (ZRS—Union of Workers of Slovakia) 13 and the SNS nine. In December Mečiar and the HZDS formed a new ruling coalition with the SNS and the ZRS.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1996-03-01" to-date="1996-03-31">
               <chron-head>March 1996</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The National Council approved a friendship treaty with Hungary.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1998-03-02">
               <chron-head>2 March 1998</chron-head>
               <chron-text>President Kováč’s term expired without a replacement having been elected; Mečiar, as Prime Minister, constitutionally assumed most of the functions of head of state.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1998-09-25" to-date="1998-09-26">
               <chron-head>25-26 September 1998</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The HZDS emerged from the general election as the largest party, with 43 seats; the SNS won 14 seats. Four groups that had opposed the outgoing administration secured representation: the Slovenská Demokratická Koalícia (SDK—Slovak Democratic Coalition (with 42 seats), the SDĽ (23), the Magyar Koalíció Pártja (MKP—Party of the Hungarian Coalition, 15) and the Strana Občianskeho Porozumenia (SOP—Party of Civic Understanding, 13 seats).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1998-10-30">
               <chron-head>30 October 1998</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A coalition Government of the SDK, the SDĽ, the MKP and the SOP, was appointed, led by Mikuláš Dzurinda of the SDK.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1999-01-01" to-date="1999-01-31">
               <chron-head>January 1999</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The National Council approved a constitutional amendment pro­viding for the direct election of the President.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1999-05-15">
               <chron-head>15 and 29 May 1999</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In the first round of presidential voting, Rudolf Schuster (the Mayor of Košice and Chairman of the SOP), obtained 47.4% of the votes cast, and Mečiar 37.2%; in the second round on 29 May Schuster defeated Mečiar, with 57.2% of the vote.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="2000-04-01" to-date="2000-04-30">
               <chron-head>April 2000</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Mečiar was arrested and charged with fraud and abuse of power; he was also fined for refusing to give evidence in an investigation into the abduction of Michal Kováč, Jr in 1995.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2000-05-22">
               <chron-head>22 May 2000</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Dzurinda and his Czech counterpart, Miloš Zeman, signed an agreement resolving disputes over the division of Czechoslovak property.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2000-11-18">
               <chron-head>18 November 2000</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The SDK effectively collapsed, as the Slovenská Demokratická a Kresťanská Únia (SDKÚ—Slovak and Democratic Christian Union) attempted to become its single-party replacement, under Dzurinda’s leadership.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="2002-09-20" to-date="2002-09-21">
               <chron-head>20-21 September 2002</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At legislative elections the HZDS became the largest faction in the National Council, with 36 seats, short of an overall majority. The SDKÚ won 28 seats, the centre-right (later centre-left) Smer (Direction) 25, the MKP 20, the KDH 15, and the reformist Aliancia Nového Občana (ANO—Alliance of the New Citizen) 15. After Mečiar failed to form a governing coalition, Schuster invited Dzurinda to do so. His new Government, comprising the SDKÚ, the MKP, the KDH and the ANO), and including the Chairman of the Demokratická strana (DS—Democratic Party) assumed office on 16 October.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="2003-05-16" to-date="2003-05-17">
               <chron-head>16-17 May 2003</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At a national referendum on accession to EU membership, 92.5% of the votes cast (with 52% of the electorate participating) were cast in favour.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2003-06-14">
               <chron-head>14 June 2003</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The HZDS was renamed the Ľudová strana—Hnutie za Demokratické Slovensko (ĽS—HZDS—People’s Party—Movement for a Democratic Slovakia).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2003-12-08">
               <chron-head>8 December 2003</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Dzurinda's Government lost its majority, after several SDKÚ deputies went into opposition.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-03-29">
               <chron-head>29 March 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Slovakia became a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-04-03">
               <chron-head>3 and 17 April 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following two rounds of voting, Hnutie za Demokraciu (HZD—Movement for Democracy) leader, Ivan Gašparovič, was elected President, defeating Mečiar in the run-off poll.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-05-01">
               <chron-head>1 May 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Slovakia became a member of the EU.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-06-13">
               <chron-head>13 June 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In elections to the European Parliament, the KDH, the SDKÚ, Smer and the ĽS—HZDS each obtained three seats, and the MKP obtained two. The rate of participation by the electorate, at 17.0%, was the lowest in any EU country.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-06-15">
               <chron-head>15 June 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Gašparovič was inaugurated as President. Shortly afterwards he left the HZD.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2005-09-01">
               <chron-head>1 September 2005</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The SDKÚ, the MKP and the KDH agreed to expel the ANO from the governing coalition.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2006-06-17">
               <chron-head>17 June 2006</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In early elections Smer-Sociálna Demokracia (Smer-SD—Direction-Social Democracy&#160;(as Smer had become following its merger with the SDĽ) secured 50 seats in the National Council. The SDKÚ-DS (formed by the merger of the DS and the SDKÚ) won 31 seats, the SNS 20, the MKP 20, the ĽS—HZDS 15 and the KDH 14.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2006-07-03">
               <chron-head>4 July 2006</chron-head>
               <chron-text>President Gašparovič appointed Smer-SD Chairman Robert Fico as Prime Minister, leading a Government comprising representatives of Smer-SD, the SNS and the ĽS—HZDS.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>1 January 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Slovakia adopted the euro as its currency.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 March and 4 April 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following two rounds of voting, Gašparovič defeated Iveta Radičová of the SDKÚ-DS in a presidential election.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>7 June 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At elections to the European Parliament, Smer-SD obtained five of Slovakia’s 13 seats. The SDKÚ-DS, the MKP and the KDH each won two seats, and the ĽS—HZDS and the SNS were awarded one seat apiece. The rate of participation, at 19.6%, was again the lowest in any EU country.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>1 September 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Legislation restricting the use of languages other than Slovak entered into effect. Later in the month some 10,000 people, including many ethnic Hungarians, attended a rally to demand that the legislation be amended. It was subsequently agreed that the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe would oversee the law’s implementation.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>12 June 2010</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In elections to the National Council, Smer-SD obtained 62 of the 150 legislative seats, but were unable to construct a governing coalition. The SDKÚ-DS obtained 28 seats, ahead of the pro-business Sloboda a Solidarita (SaS—Freedom and Solidarity), with 22; the KDH (15); Most/Híd (Bridge), a recently formed party intended to promote interethnic co-operation (14); and the SNS (nine).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 July 2010</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Fico’s Government resigned, and Radičová was appointed as Prime Minister. One day later a new Government, comprising a coalition of the SDKÚ-DS, the KDH, Most/Híd and SaS, was appointed. On 10 August it secured a vote of confidence in the National Council.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>11 October 2011</chron-head>
               <chron-text>SaS boycotted a parliamentary vote on Slovakia’s endorsement of an expanded European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF), which had been established to support eurozone countries experiencing severe financial difficulties. The defeat of the motion effectively precipitated the collapse of the coalition Government. After agreeing to a demand by Fico to schedule early elections, on 13 October Radičová secured parliamentary approval of the EFSF, with the support of Smer-SD. Later that month Gašparovič dismissed the Government, reappointing it in an interim capacity.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>10 March 2012</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In elections to the National Council, Smer-SD obtained an outright majority, receiving 83 seats; the KDH received 16 seats, as did a recently formed party focused on the combat of corruption, Obyčajní Ľudia a Nezávislé Osobnosti (OĽaNO—Ordinary People and Independent Personalities), and ahead of Most/Híd, with 13 seats. The SDKÚ-DS and SaS each received 11 seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>3 April 2012</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Gašparovič appointed Fico as Prime Minister; a Government that principally comprised members of Smer-SD was installed one day later.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>15 March and 29 March 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In the first round of a presidential election, Fico was placed first, with 28.0% of the votes cast; a wealthy businessman without political affiliation, Andrej Kiska, was second, with 24.0%. In the run-off poll, Kiska obtained 59.4% of the vote, defeating Fico. Kiska was inaugurated as President on 15 June.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2009-06-07">
               <chron-head>25 May 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At elections to the European Parliament Smer-SD secured four of the 13 seats allocated to Slovakia, the KDH won two seats, the SDKÚ-DS two, and OĽaNO one. The conservative Nová Väčšina—Dohoda (NOVA—New Majority—Agreement) party obtained one seat, as did SaS, the MPK and Most/Híd. The rate of participation was 13.1%, by far the lowest in any EU country.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 March 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In legislative elections, Smer-SD won 49 seats, and 28.3% of the votes cast, remaining the largest party but losing its legislative majority. SaS won 21 seats and 12.1% of the votes, OĽaNO 19 seats and 11.0% of the votes and the SNS 15 seats and 8.6%. The extreme nationalist Kotleba—Ľudová strana Naše Slovensko (ĽSNS—Kotleba—Our Slovakia People’s Party) secured representation for the first time, with 14 seats and 8.0% of the votes, while another nationalist party, Sme Rodina (We are Family), won 11 seats (6.6%), Most/Híd won 11 seats (6.5%), and a party formed by former KDH members, Sieť (Network), obtained 10 seats (5.6%). The rate of participation was 59.8%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>23 March 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Kiska approved a new Government, led by Fico, in which eight of the 14 ministerial posts were awarded to Smer-SD representatives. The Government, which also included representatives of the SNS, Sieť and Most/Híd, included former parliamentary Chairman Peter Pellegrini as a Deputy Prime Minister, and retained several members of the previous administration. Several Sieť and Most/Híd deputies indicated that they would leave their parties in protest against the decision to join the Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>16 August 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Five of the seven remaining Sieť deputies left the party, subsequently joining Most/Híd. Roman Brecely, the leader of Sieť, was consequently obliged to tender his ministerial resignation. On 1 September a modified coalition agreement was signed (with the two remaining Sieť deputies continuing to support the Government).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>28 February 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Minister of Culture, Marek Maďarič, resigned, following the murders of an investigative journalist, Ján Kuciak, and his fiancée. On 2 March over 20,000 people took part in a rally held in Bratislava in response to the killings, and attended by President Kiska. Two days later Kiska urged the Prime Minister to reorganize the Government or announce early elections. Following further mass protests, on 12 March the Minister of the Interior, Robert Kaliňák, resigned, and on 15 March Fico announced his resignation. Kiska invited Pellegrini to form a new administration, although large-scale protests in support of early elections continued.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>22 March 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Kiska appointed a Government headed by Pellegrini, which comprised the same three coalition parties and many of the previous ministers as the outgoing administration. Five days later the Government was approved by 81 deputies in the National Council.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>16 April 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The new Minister of the Interior, Tomáš Drucker, resigned, amid continued unrest. Pellegrini subsequently confirmed that the head of the police, Tibor Gašpar, would resign in May. Later in April Kiska appointed Denisa Saková, a leading member of Smer-SD, to replace Drucker.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>15 and 30 March 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A presidential election was held, the incumbent, Kiska, having announced his intention not to seek a further term of office. The first-placed candidate in the first round was Zuzana Čaputová, with 40.6% of the votes cast, a prominent environmental activist and representative of a newly established party, Progresívne Slovenko (PS—Progressive Slovakia). In the run-off poll she defeated the second-placed candidate, European Commissioner Maroš Šefčovič, who was supported by Smer-SD, obtaining 58.4% of the vote. The rate of participation was 48.7% in the first round and 41.8% in the second.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>7 May 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ladislav Kamenický of Smer-SD was appointed Minister of Finance, following Peter Kažimír’s resignation, prior to assuming office as Governor of the National Bank.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>25 May 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In elections to the European Parliament, a coalition of PS and another recently formed party, SPOLU—Občianska Demokracia (TOGETHER—Civic Democracy), was placed first in Slovakia, obtaining 20.1% of the votes cast and receiving four seats. Smer-SD was second, with 15.7% and three seats, ahead of the ĽSNS, with 12.1% and two seats, the KDH, with 9.7% and one seat, SaS, with 9.6% and two seats, and a coalition of OĽaNO and NOVA, with 5.3% and one seat. Although the rate of participation increased to 22.7%, it was again the lowest in the EU.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>15 June 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Čaputová was inaugurated as President.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>29 February 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In elections to the National Council, OĽaNO, led by Igor Matovič (who had campaigned on anti-corruption pledges), was placed first, with 25.0% of the votes cast and 53 seats; Smer-SD received 18.3% and 38 seats, while former coalition parties the SNS and Most/Híd failed to retain representation. Sme Rodina, with 8.2%, and the ĽSNS, with 8.0%, each obtained 17 seats, SaS 6.2% and 13 seats, and a new party established by Kiska, Za Ľudí (For the People), 5.8% and 12 seats. The alliance of PS and SPOLU—Občianska Demokracia failed to secure parliamentary representation. (The leaders of both parties resigned in early March.) A record voter turnout of 65.8% was recorded.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>12 March 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The outgoing Government declared a state of emergency in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 March 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Matovič announced that he had reached an agreement to form a governing coalition comprising OĽaNO, Sme Rodina, the pro-business SaS and the centre-right Za Ľudí. The new Government, headed by Matovič, assumed office on 21 March. New members included anti-corruption activist Veronika Remišová of Za Ľudí as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Investment and Computerization, and SaS leader Richard Sulík as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Economy.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>6 April 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A former soldier was sentenced to 23 years’ imprisonment, after pleading guilty to the murder of Kuciak and his fiancée. Meanwhile, trial proceedings continued against Marián Kočner, a Slovakian businessman with reported links to organized crime, who had been a subject of Kuciak’s investigative reporting, and two other suspects. (In February Kočner had received a 19-year prison sentence on separate corruption charges, and on 3 September Kočner and another defendant were acquitted of ordering the murders; a retrial was ordered in mid-2021.)</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>1 October 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In response to a sharp rise in cases of COVID-19, restrictions—eased in April—were progressively reintroduced, and on 19 December a nationwide lockdown was instituted.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>15 March 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Minister of Labour, Social Affairs and Family, Milan Krajniak of Sme Rodina, announced his resignation, amid tensions within the ruling coalition. Earlier in March Matovič had announced plans to buy 2m. doses of the COVID-19 Sputnik V vaccine developed in Russia. However, the vaccine had not yet received either the approval of the EU’s European Medicines Agency (EMA) or the Slovakian authorities, and the agreement was made without the agreement of two of the four coalition parties, SaS and Za Ľudí.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>22 March 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>SaS leader Sulík announced his resignation from the Government, in an attempt to resolve the coalition crisis, urging Prime Minister Matovič to do likewise. Following an ultimatum from the SaS and Za Ľudí, Matovič had announced on the previous day that he would be willing to resign only on the condition that Sulík also tendered his resignation. Several other ministers also resigned, including the Minister of Justice, Mária Kolíková (of Za Ľudí), followed by the Minister of Education, Science, Research and Sport, Branislav Gröhling of SaS, and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Ivan Korčok (who had been nominated by the SaS). President Čaputová additionally urged Matovič to resign.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>1 April 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following continued controversy about the use of the Sputnik V vaccine in Slovakia, Matovič resigned as Prime Minister. However, he remained in Government, exchanging positions with the erstwhile Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, Eduard Heger, also of OĽaNO. (Russia demanded the return of the vaccines it had supplied to Slovakia.) Heger’s new Government, in which Sulík became Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Economy, and which included a non-partisan Minister of Health, was approved by the National Council on 4 May.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>25 November 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following a further surge in COVID-19 cases, the Government imposed a new, 90-day state of emergency, together with a 14-day national lockdown.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 February 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A Defence Co-operation Agreement with the USA, which had been vehemently opposed by Fico’s Smer-SD and Marian Kotleba’s ĽSNS, was approved by the National Council, despite opposition protests the previous day, when some parliamentary deputes had attempted to disrupt debate of the issue.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>22 February 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The COVID-19 state of emergency was lifted, after the Government announced a plan to abolish all pandemic-related restrictions. Most domestic measures were removed on 14 March, and entry restrictions were eased from 6 April.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 March 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine on 24 February, the Government approved the deployment of a NATO enhanced forward presence battalion to Slovakia; the proposal was subsequently endorsed by the National Council. Two days later US Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin visited the country, and on 8 May Jill Biden, the wife of US President Joe Biden, visited the border town of Košice.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 April 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>After Kotleba appealed a prison sentence received in 2020 for displaying neo-Nazi sympathies, the Supreme Court commuted the term to a suspended sentence but upheld the conviction, causing him to lose his parliamentary mandate.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>19 April 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Fico was charged with using his leadership of an organized criminal group to run misinformation campaigns against opponents. Former interior minister Kaliňák, former head of police Gašpar and oligarch Norbert Bödör were also arrested in connection with the case (although the National Council subsequently failed to support a request by the Office of the Prosecutor-General for Fico’s detention).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 September 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Government lost its parliamentary majority when the SaS withdrew from the coalition following continued acrimony between its Chairman, Sulík, and OĽaNO leader Matovič, who had failed to comply with ultimatums that he resign from his post of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. In a subsequent government reorganization, Rastislav Káčer was appointed as Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, Karel Hirman became Minister of the Economy and Viliam Karas was appointed Minister of Justice.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>15 December 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A motion of no confidence brought by SaS, which accused the Government of failing to support citizens following steep increases in energy costs resulting from the war in Ukraine, was adopted in the legislature (with 78 deputies voting in favour). Heger’s administration remained in office in an interim capacity.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 January 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A referendum proposing the amendment of the Constitution to allow pre-term elections took place; 98.4% of the participating electorate supported the proposal, but a participation rate of 27.2% rendered the result invalid. However, four days later, following inter-party negotiations, the National Council voted to amend the Constitution to allow early elections if approved by a three-fifths’ majority in the Council.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>31 January 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Early elections were scheduled for 30 September, after the Constitution was amended to allow for snap elections to be called.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>7 May 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In accordance with opposition demands, Heger announced his resignation, in favour of a technocratic administration. Čaputová appointed Ľudovít Ódor, hitherto Deputy Governor of the central bank, to head an interim technocratic Government pending the legislative elections.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>15 June 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ódor’s newly installed administration failed to win a vote of confidence in the legislature. President Caputová duly dismissed the Government, which was, however, to remain in place with restricted powers until the legislative elections due in September.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
     </chron-list>
</chronology>