<?xml version="1.0"?>
<chronology id="RO.CHRON" id-root="ro" original-filename="unknown" region="CASEE" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>Chronology</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Romania</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Chronology</alt-heading>
     <chron-list>
          <chron-entry from-date="0106-01-01" to-date="0106-12-31">
               <chron-head>
        106 
        <sc>ce</sc>
               </chron-head>
               <chron-text>Emperor Trajan made Dacia a province of the Roman Empire.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="0270-01-01" to-date="0270-12-31">
               <chron-head>270</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Rome abandoned Dacia to Visigothic invaders, the first of many incursions by peoples from the north and east.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1365-01-01" to-date="1365-12-31">
               <chron-head>1365</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Emergence of independent principalities in Moldavia (now north-east Romania and parts of Moldova and Ukraine) and Wallachia (now south-west Romania), having formerly been Hungarian banates or border lordships.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1394-01-01" to-date="1394-12-31">
               <chron-head>1394</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Wallachia became a dependency of the Ottoman Empire.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1457-01-01" to-date="1504-12-31">
               <chron-head>1457-1504</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Reign of Ştefan III the Great’ of Moldavia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1512-01-01" to-date="1512-12-31">
               <chron-head>1512</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Moldavia recognized Ottoman overlordship.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1593-01-01" to-date="1601-12-31">
               <chron-head>1593-1601</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Reign of Mihai the Brave’ of Wallachia, who briefly united Moldavia and Transylvania with his realm.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1856-04-01" to-date="1856-04-30">
               <chron-head>April 1856</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Under the terms of the Treaty of Paris, Wallachia and Moldavia were unified, remaining under Turkish suzerainty; the Moldavian Bojar, Cuza, became the ruler.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1866-01-01" to-date="1866-12-31">
               <chron-head>1866</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A prince of the House of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen replaced the ousted Cuza as Carol I of Romania.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1878-07-13">
               <chron-head>13 July 1878</chron-head>
               <chron-text>By the Treaty of Berlin, Romania was recognized as an independent state. It was recognized as a kingdom in March 1881</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1916-01-01" to-date="1916-12-31">
               <chron-head>1916</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Romania entered the First World War; much of the country was occupied by the Axis Powers.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1919-01-01" to-date="1920-12-31">
               <chron-head>1919-20</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following the post-First World War peace treaties, Romania received substantial new territories, including Bessarabia, Bucovina, Transylvania, the Banat and Crisana-Maramureş. The country thus obtained a substantial ethnic Hungarian population.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1938-01-01" to-date="1938-12-31">
               <chron-head>1938</chron-head>
               <chron-text>King Carol II established a royal dictatorship.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1940-06-27">
               <chron-head>1940</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Romania ceded Bessarabia and northern Bucovina to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) in June, two months later ceding southern Dobrogea to Bulgaria and northern Transylvania to Hungary. In September Carol II abdicated in favour of his son, Michael (Mihai), having appointed Gen. Ion Antonescu Prime Minister.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1941-06-22">
               <chron-head>22 June 1941</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Romania joined the German invasion of the USSR.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1944-08-23">
               <chron-head>23 August 1944</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Antonescu was arrested and Romania became a supporter of the Allied cause. On 31 August Soviet troops entered Bucharest.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1945-03-06">
               <chron-head>6 March 1945</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Soviets installed a puppet’ Government under Petru Groza.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1946-11-01" to-date="1946-11-30">
               <chron-head>November 1946</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Elections were held and won by the communist-led Frontul Naţional Democrat (FND—National Democratic Front). In December 1947 the Romanian People’s Republic was proclaimed following the abdication of King Michael.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1952-09-24">
               <chron-head>1952</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Constitution, based on the Soviet model, was approved by the Grand National Assembly. Following new elections to the Grand National Assembly, Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej, First Secretary of the ruling Partidul Muncitoresc Romãn (PMR—Romanian Workers’ Party, the successor to the FND), became absolute leader.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1965-03-01" to-date="1965-03-31">
               <chron-head>1965</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following Gheorghiu-Dej’s death, Nicolae Ceauşescu was elected First Secretary of the PMR, which subsequently renamed itself the Partidul Comunist Romãn (Romanian Communist Party). A new Constitution was adopted, and the country renamed the Socialist Republic of Romania. In 1967 Ceauşescu became President of the State Council, and, in 1974 President of the Republic.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1968-01-01" to-date="1968-12-31">
               <chron-head>1968</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Romania refused to join in the Warsaw Pact’s suppression of the Prague Spring’ revolt in Czechoslovakia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1989-12-15" to-date="1989-12-17">
               <chron-head>15-17 December 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Mounting protests in Timişoara over attempts to arrest László Tőkes, an ethnic Hungarian Calvinist pastor, culminated in the army opening fire on demonstrators.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1989-12-21">
               <chron-head>21 December 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ceauşescu was interrupted by hostile chanting during a speech in Bucharest. During a subsequent demonstration the police and army shot dead many protesters.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1989-12-22" to-date="1989-12-25">
               <chron-head>22-25 December 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ceauşescu and his wife fled Bucharest, but were later captured, tried by a military tribunal and executed. Meanwhile, anti-Ceauşescu forces seized control of the radio and television stations, and a Council of the Frontul Salvării Naţionale (FSN—National Salvation Front), the leadership of which comprised mostly former communist officials, was formed. On 26 December Ion Iliescu was declared President; Petre Roman became Prime Minister. Two days later the name of the country was changed to Romania, and on 1 January 1990 the Securitate (secret police) was abolished.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1990-01-24" to-date="1990-01-29">
               <chron-head>24-29 January 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following an announcement that the FSN would contest forthcoming elections, anti-FSN demonstrations were held; FSN loyalists dispersed the protests and attacked the offices of parties opposed to the FSN.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1990-02-01" to-date="1990-02-28">
               <chron-head>February 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The FSN and opposition parties agreed on the formation of a 253-seat Provisional National Unity Council, which elected a 21-member Executive Bureau led by Iliescu. A demonstration against the FSN was followed by one in support of the FSN by miners from the Jiu valley, in southern Transylvania.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1990-05-20">
               <chron-head>20 May 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The FSN won victory in elections to both legislative chambers. Iliescu was elected President with over 85% of the votes cast. He was sworn in as President (later resigning the leadership of the FSN) on 20 June and reappointed Roman Prime Minister. Meanwhile, on 13-15 June police forcibly removed opposition supporters who had been occupying University Square since late April, prompting unrest in which the police headquarters was set on fire. The Government transported miners to Bucharest, who attacked demonstrators; at least six people were killed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1990-11-01" to-date="1990-11-30">
               <chron-head>November 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The National Assembly granted the Prime Minister special powers to rule by decree. There were various demonstrations, in Bucharest and elsewhere.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1991-02-01" to-date="1991-02-28">
               <chron-head>February 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Land reform legislation came into effect, returning arable land to agricultural workers. In August privatization legislation was approved.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-08-27">
               <chron-head>27 August 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Government announced its recognition of the Republic of Moldova immediately after its parliament had declared its independence from the USSR; President Iliescu referred to the inevitability of Moldova and Romania being reunited.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1991-09-23" to-date="1991-09-26">
               <chron-head>23-26 September 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Coal miners launched a strike over pay and conditions; when they demonstrated in Bucharest, violence broke out. The Government resigned in response.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1991-10-01" to-date="1991-10-31">
               <chron-head>October 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Theodor Stolojan (former finance minister and President of the National Privatization Agency), at the invitation of President Iliescu, formed a new coalition Government, including members of the FSN, the Partidul Naţional Liberal (PNL—National Liberal Party), and two other parties.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-12-08">
               <chron-head>8 December 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A referendum approved a new Constitution.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1992-09-27">
               <chron-head>27 September and 11 October 1992</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Legislative and presidential elections (the latter being held in two rounds) were held. The Frontul Democrat al Salvării Nationale (FSDN—Democratic National Salvation Front), a successor to the FSN, won 117 of the 328 seats in the Camera Deputaţilor (Chamber of Deputies), the lower chamber of Parlamentul (Parliament), and 49 of the 143 seats in the Senatul (Senate), the upper chamber; the opposition Convenţia Democrată Romãnă (CDR—Democratic Convention of Romania) alliance was second-placed, with 82 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and 34 seats in the Senate. Iliescu was re-elected President, defeating Emil Constantinescu of the CDR in the run-off poll.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1992-11-01" to-date="1992-11-30">
               <chron-head>November 1992</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Nicolae Văcăroiu, a nominally independent bureaucrat, formed a Government comprising equal numbers of FDSN members and independents.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1993-05-01" to-date="1993-05-31">
               <chron-head>May 1993</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The abolition of price subsidies for many commodities and services precipitated renewed unrest.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1993-10-07">
               <chron-head>7 October 1993</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Romania was admitted to the Council of Europe.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1996-09-16">
               <chron-head>16 September 1996</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Romania and Hungary signed a Treaty of Understanding, Co-operation and Good Neighbourliness in Timişoara, under which Hungary renounced claims to parts of Transylvania (which it had lost in 1918-20), while Romania guaranteed a range of rights to its ethnic Hungarian population.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1996-11-03">
               <chron-head>3 and 17 November 1996</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a general election, the CDR won 122 of the 328 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and 53 of the Senate’s 143 seats, the Partidul Democraţiei Sociale in Romãnia (PDSR—Party of Social Democracy of Romania), as the FDSN had become, took 91 and 41 seats, respectively, while the Uniunea Social Democrată (USD—Social Democratic Union)—an alliance of the Partidul Democrat (PD—Democratic Party—as the FSN was now known) and the Partidul Social-Democrat Romãn (PSDR—Romanian Social Democratic Party)—obtained 53 deputies and 23 senators. In the first round of presidential voting, Iliescu won 32.3% of the votes, ahead of Constantinescu, with 28.2%. In the second round, Constantinescu was elected President, with 54.4% of the vote.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1996-12-12">
               <chron-head>12 December 1996</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A coalition Government dominated by the CDR, but also including representatives of the USD parties and the Romániai Magyar Demokrata Szövetség (RMDSz—Democratic Alliance of Hungarians in Romania), was sworn in, led by Victor Ciorbea.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1998-02-07">
               <chron-head>7 February 1998</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ciorbea announced the formation of a new Council of Ministers, including members of the CDR, the RMDSz and independents.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1998-03-30">
               <chron-head>30 March 1998</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ciorbea resigned as premier. His successor was Radu Vasile, Secretary-General of the Partidul Naţional Ţărănesc Creştin Democrat (PNŢ-CD—Christian Democratic National Peasants’ Party), part of the CDR alliance).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1999-01-04">
               <chron-head>4 January 1999</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Miners in the Jiu valley went on strike, demanding a 35% pay increase and the reversal of a decision to close two coal mines; up to 20,000 miners then marched on Bucharest, precipitating violent clashes with the security forces.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1999-06-19">
               <chron-head>19 June 1999</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Chamber of Deputies voted to permit public access to the files of the Securitate; the legislation was enacted by the President in December.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1999-07-16">
               <chron-head>16 July 1999</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Supreme Court of Justice sentenced two senior officials for ordering the security forces to open fire on protesters in Timişoara in 1989.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1999-12-13">
               <chron-head>13 December 1999</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Amid continuing social unrest, President Constantinescu dismissed Vasile, after all seven PNŢ-CD ministers and three PNL ministers had resigned from the cabinet. as Prime Minister. A new, largely unchanged, Council of Ministers led by the erstwhile Governor of the National Bank, Mugur Isărescu, was subsequently appointed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2000-11-26">
               <chron-head>26 November and 10 December 2000</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Legislative and presidential elections were held. In the legislative elections, Iliescu’s PDSR won 155 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and 65 in the Senate, the PRM won 84 in the Chamber of Deputies and 37 in the Senate, with the PD and the PNL each obtaining 30 deputies and 13 senatorial mandates. In the presidential election, Iliescu defeated Corneliu Vadim Tudor of the PRM, assuming the presidency on 20 December.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2000-12-28">
               <chron-head>28 December 2000</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The legislature endorsed a minority government led by Adrian Năstase of the PDSR. (Isărescu returned to the governorship of the National Bank). In June 2001 the PDSR and the PSDR merged to form the Partidul Social Democrat (PSD—Social Democratic Party), led by Năstase.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2001-02-07">
               <chron-head>7 February 2001</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Iliescu signed legislation on the restitution of property nationalized in the communist era.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="2003-10-18" to-date="2003-10-19">
               <chron-head>29 October 2003</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Substantial revisions to the Constitution, to bring it into conformity with European Union (EU) requirements, entered into effect, following their approval by referendum earlier in the month.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-03-29">
               <chron-head>29 March 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Romania became a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="2004-11-28" to-date="2004-12-12">
               <chron-head>28 November and 12 December 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In legislative elections, the Uniunea Naţională (National Union), an alliance of the PSD and the Partidul Umanist Romãn (PUR—Humanist Party of Romania), won 132 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and 57 in the Senate; the Alianţa Dreptate şi Adevăr (DA—Yes—Justice and Truth Alliance—a coalition of the PNL and the PD) was second, with 112 seats in the lower house and 49 in the upper; the PRM obtained 48 deputies and 21 senators. In a second round of presidential voting, PD leader Traian Băsescu won 51.2% of the votes, narrowly defeating Năstase. On 20 December Băsescu was inaugurated as Presi­dent; Năstase was elected Chairman of the Chamber of Deputies. Later in the month Călin Popescu-Tăriceanu (Chairman of the PNL) became Prime Minister, leading a administration comprising the RMDSz, the PD, the PNL and the PUR.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2006-03-16">
               <chron-head>16 March 2006</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following a vote of no confidence by the PSD, Năstase (whose financial affairs were under investigation) resigned as Chairman of the Chamber of Deputies. Bogdan Olteanu of the PNL was elected to succeed him. (Năstase also resigned as Executive President of the PSD.)</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2007-01-01">
               <chron-head>1 January 2007</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Romania became a full member of the EU.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2007-04-03">
               <chron-head>3 April 2007</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Popescu-Tăriceanu formed a new, minority Government, comprising representatives of the PNL and the RMDSz.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2007-04-19">
               <chron-head>19 April 2007</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament endorsed a motion initiated by the PSD to suspend Băsescu from office on grounds of unconstitutional conduct. However, in a referendum held on 19 May around 74.5% of voters (with a participation rate of 44% of the electorate) opposed Băsescu’s removal.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>25 November 2007</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At elections to the European Parliament, the PD obtained 13 of the 35 seats allocated to Romania, ahead of the PSD, with 10, the PNL (six), the PLD (three) and the RMDSz (two seats). One independent candidate, Tőkés, was elected. Around 29.1% of the electorate voted.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>30 November 2008</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Elections to the bicameral legislature were conducted under a new system of proportional representation. The Partidul Democrat Liberal (PD-L—Democratic Liberal Party), formed by the merger of the PD and the PLD, marginally secured the greatest representation in both chambers, with 115 of 334 seats in the Chamber of Deputies, and 51 of 137 seats in the Senate; the PSD, allied with the Partidul Conservator (PC—Conservative Party—as the PUR had been renamed), won 114 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and 49 in the Senate; the PNL won 65 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and 28 in the Senate. The RMDSz obtained 22 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and nine seats in the Senate. On 22 December the legislature approved a new coalition Government of the PD-L and the PSD, led by PD-L leader Emil Boc. Dan Nica of the PSD became Deputy Prime Minister.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>7 June 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At elections to the European Parliament, the PSD-PC alliance won 11 of Romania’s reduced allocation of 33 seats. The PD-L obtained 10, the PNL five, the RMDSz and the PRM each obtained three, and one independent member, Elena Băsescu, the daughter of the President, was elected (Tőkés was re-elected, as a representative of the RMDSz). Only 27.7% of the electorate voted.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>1 October 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Nica was dismissed as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Administration and the Interior, after he made comments about the potential for fraud in the forthcoming presidential election. The PSD withdrew from the ruling coalition in protest, a minority PD-L administration remaining. On 13 October Parliament approved a motion of no confidence in Boc’s Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>22 November and 7 December 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A referendum was held, alongside a first round of voting in the presidential election. In the referendum, in which 50.9% of the electorate participated, 77.8% of voters endorsed a proposal by Băsescu for the legislature to operate on a unicameral basis, while 88.8% supported a reduction in the number of legislators from 471 to 300. In the second round of presidential voting, Băsescu, with 50.3% of the vote, narrowly defeated Dan Mircea Geoană of the PSD.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>23 December 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Two days after Băsescu was inaugurated for a second presidential term, Parliament approved Boc’s new Council of Ministers, including members of the PD-L, the RMDSz and independents.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>6 February 2012</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following weeks of protests against official corruption and austerity policies, Boc’s Government resigned. Băsescu subsequently nominated Mihai Răzvan Ungureanu to form a new government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>27 April 2012</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following defections from the PD-L to the Uniunea Social Liberală (USL—Social Liberal Union) alliance (formed by the PNL, the PSD and the PC), Ungureanu’s Government collapsed after a motion of no confidence. On 7 May a new, interim Government took office, led by PSD leader Victor Ponta.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>20 June 2012</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Former Prime Minister Năstase attempted suicide, after he was sentenced to two years’ imprisonment on corruption charges relating to his 2004 election campaign. (He was released after nine months, but in January 2014 was sentenced by the Supreme Court to further custodial terms, to run concurrently, for four years and three years, for taking bribes and for blackmail, respectively.) On 6 July 2012 the legislature voted to suspend Băsescu from office for 30 days, and called a referendum to seek public approval for his impeachment, on the grounds that he had exceeded his authority and violated the rule of separation of state powers. Two days earlier the Government had approved an emergency decree restricting the powers of the Constitutional Court, preventing it from ruling on parliamentary decisions.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>29 July 2012</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Some 88.7% of those voting in the referendum favoured Băsescu’s impeachment. However the low rate of participation (46.2%) rendered it invalid.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 December 2012</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Elections to both parliamentary chambers resulted in victory for the USL (by this time formally including an alliance of the PNL and the PC, as well as a coalition of the PSD and the Uniunea Naţională pentru Progresul Romãniei—UNPR—National Union for the Progress of Romania); the four coalition parties together secured 273 seats in the Chamber of Deputies (which had been expanded to 412 seats) and 122 seats in the Senate (enlarged to 176 seats). A coalition including the PD-L and the PNŢ-CD received 56 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and 24 seats in the Senate. The Partidul Poporului—Dan Diaconescu (People’s Party—Dan Diaconescu), led by a journalist and businessman, obtained 47 seats in the lower chamber and 21 seats in the upper chamber. The rate of participation was 41.8%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 December 2012</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The legislature endorsed a new coalition Government, again led by Ponta, which included representatives of the USL parties.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 October 2013</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and Public Administration, Liviu Dragnea, was charged, together with more than 70 PSD officials, with malpractice in attempting to manipulate the 2012 referendum on the impeachment of President Băsescu. Dragnea resigned in May 2015, after being convicted of facilitating electoral fraud.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>25 February 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The PNL withdrew from the Government. One day later Băsescu announced that he would ratify a new loan arrangement negotiated by the Government with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the EU in order to secure the stability of the administration. On 4 March Parliament approved a reconstituted Government, in which the RMDSz replaced the PNL.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2009-06-07">
               <chron-head>25 May 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At elections to the European Parliament a coalition of the PSD, the PC and the UNPR secured 16 of the 32 seats allocated to Romania, the PNL obtained six, the PD-L five, the RMDSz two seats, and the Partidul Mişcarea Populară (People’s Movement Party), which Băsescu had recently established, also obtained two seats. An independent representative was also elected. The rate of participation was 32.2%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>3 July 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Popescu-Tăriceanu announced the formation of a breakaway faction from the PNL that was to align with the liberal, rather than conservative, faction in the European Parliament. The new party, the Partidul Liberal Reformator (PLR—Liberal Reformist Party), held its inaugural congress in early August.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>2 November 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In the first round of the presidential election, the first-placed candidate was Ponta, who received 40.4% of the votes cast, followed by Klaus Iohannis of the PNL (which had absorbed the PD-L), with 30.4%. Protests demanding the resignation of Ponta and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Titus Corlăţean, took place in several Romanian towns, as well as in European capitals, after Romanians resident abroad were unable to vote owing to organizational difficulties; on 10 November Corlăţean resigned.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>16 November 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In the second round of presidential voting, Iohannis defeated Ponta, having obtained 54.4% of the votes cast. The rate of participation, which had been 53.2% in the first round, reached 64.1% in the second.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>17 December 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament approved a new Government led by Ponta, comprising members of the PSD, the UNPR, the PC, the PLR (which remained unregistered) and independents. Iohannis was inaugurated as President on 21 December.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 July 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ponta was indicted on charges that included tax evasion, money laundering and malpractice while working as a lawyer in 2007-08, and on several other charges for which he had immunity from prosecution. One day earlier he had resigned as Chairman of the PSD, but he refused to resign as Prime Minister. Ponta’s trial commenced in September.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>12 October 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Dragnea was elected as Chairman of the PSD.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>3 November 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Large anti-corruption protests took place outside government buildings in major cities to demand the resignation of officials including Ponta and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Internal Affairs, Gabriel Oprea, after it emerged that a nightclub in Bucharest, where a fire in October had resulted in 64 deaths, had been issued with an operating license without the appropriate fire permit. On the following day Ponta submitted the resignation of his Government, but protests demanding early elections continued; on 7 November President Iohannis attended a rally to express sympathy with the protesters.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>17 November 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following the appointment by Iohannis of Dacian Cioloş, a former European Commissioner, as premier, a new, non-party Government took office.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>11 December 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Legislative elections were conducted under a revised system of proportional representation. The PSD emerged as the leading party, securing 154 seats in the Chamber of Deputies (with 45.5% of the votes) and 67 seats (45.7%) in the Senate, while the representation of the PNL fell to 69 seats (20.0%) and 30 seats (20.4%), respectively. The third-placed party was the newly reconstituted, anti-corruption Uniunea Salvaţi Romănia (USR—Save Romania Union), with 30 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and 13 in the Senate. Later that month the PSD signed a coalition protocol with the Partidul Alianţa Liberalilor şi Democraţilor (ALDE—Alliance of Liberals and Democrats Party), formed by the merger of the PLR and the PC in mid-2015; Dragnea became President of the Chamber of Deputies.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>30 December 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Former Minister of Communications Sorin Mihai Grindeanu was appointed Prime Minister. Several days later the legislature approved the formation of his coalition Government. Sevil Shhaideh was appointed Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development, Public Administration and EU Funds, and Daniel Constantin of ALDE became Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Environment.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>31 January 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Amid large-scale public protests, the Government adopted measures by emergency decree, decriminalizing abuse of office and conflict of interest involving funds of less than 200,000 lei, reducing the penalties for corruption offences, and allowing for some criminal sentences to be commuted (including, potentially, that imposed on Dragnea). Although the decree was repealed on 5 February, the Government announced that the changes to the criminal law would be submitted to Parliament. On 8 February the Government won a motion of confidence. Minister of Justice Florin Iordache, who had drafted the controversial decree, resigned the next day, and several days later Parliament endorsed a proposal by Iohannis for the scheduling of a national referendum on anti-corruption reforms.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>22 February 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Grindeanu reorganized the Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 March 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament adopted a parliamentary statement accusing the President of `abuse of law’ and of having attempted to usurp the powers of the legislature, with 203 votes cast in favour and 94 against.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 June 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Supreme Court indicted former President Iliescu and former premier Roman for crimes against humanity in association with the violent response to anti-Government protesters in Bucharest in June 1990. Military prosecutors indicted them in April 2018 for the same offence, with regard to the uprising of December 1989.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 June 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Grindeanu’s Government collapsed, following a motion of no confidence in the legislature.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>29 June 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Government was sworn in, led by Mihai Tudose, hitherto Minister of the Economy.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>12 October 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The PSD voted in support of a government reorganization, which provided for the removal from office of Rovana Plumb, the Minister-delegate responsible for EU funds, and deputy premier Shhaideh (both under investigation for alleged abuse of office), together with the Minister of Transport, Răzvan Cuc.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 November 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>An estimated 15,000 people took part in a protest in Bucharest, against proposed new changes to justice legislation. Demonstrations also took place in other cities. On 23 November a parliamentary motion of no confidence, brought against the Government by the PNL, was defeated. However, widespread demonstrations followed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 December 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Chamber of Deputies adopted the amendments to justice legislation, and the Senate did so one week later. Objections to the legislation were subsequently filed at the Constitutional Court.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>15 January 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Minister of Justice Tudose announced his resignation, amid continued tensions with Dragnea, after the premier demanded the resignation of an ally of Dragnea, Minister of the Interior Carmen Dan. Amid opposition demands for fresh elections, the PSD nominated Viorica Dăncilă as premier. Iohannis approved the nomination two days later. Dăncilă successfully submitted her new cabinet (to which Plumb was reappointed) to a legislative vote of confidence on 29 January.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>2 May 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>President Iohannis refused to approve the controversial judicial reforms (criticized by the EU and amended in March), stating that the Government was engaged in `an assault against the justice system’. He announced his intention to refer the reforms back to the Constitutional Court.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>10 May 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ponta was acquitted of the charges of corruption, as was a former Minister of Transport, Dan Sova. A former energy sector executive tried in the same case received a custodial sentence for abuse of office.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 June 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ruling on abuse of office charges brought by the National Anti-Corruption Directorate (Direcţia Naţională Anticorupţie—DNA), the Supreme Court sentenced PSD leader Dragnea to over three years’ imprisonment, after he was found guilty of appointing party members to non-existent jobs; he was jailed in May 2019 following an unsuccessful appeal.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>4 July 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>
        In an emergency session Parliament adopted amendments to the criminal code, amid criticism from observers that the changes threatened seriously to undermine the rule of law by providing, 
        <i>inter alia</i>
        , for the partial decriminalization of abuse of office.
      </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 July 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Iohannis dismissed the head of the DNA, Laura Codruţa Köves, whom Toader had accused of exceeding her powers.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>10 August 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Tens of thousands of demonstrators gathered in central Bucharest to demand the resignation of the Government. Hundreds of protesters were reportedly wounded as police dispersed the crowds. (In September three senior police officers who co-ordinated the response to the demonstrations were charged.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>12 October 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Iohannis promulgated legislation on magistrates, the final principal piece of the new justice legislation. Three days later, however, the Government adopted, by emergency ordnance, amendments to some of its provisions, to take into account preliminary recommendations by the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>19 October 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a final report, the Venice Commission stated that the new justice legislation undermined the combat of corruption and organized crime. Also in October the Constitutional Court rejected as unconstitutional many of the amendments to the criminal and criminal procedure codes.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>19 November 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Minister of Defence Mihai Fifor submitted his resignation. One day later a major cabinet reshuffle was announced, but Iohannis refused to endorse the ruling party’s nominations until late February 2019 when, notably, Daniel Suciu became Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>19 February 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Government adopted two emergency ordinances relating to the judiciary, which included amending the procedure for selecting senior prosecutors, as well as the framework under which the country would select candidates for the role of European Public Prosecutor. The measures were criticized by Iohannis and thousands demonstrated in protest.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>26 May 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Simultaneously with elections to the European Parliament, a consultative, non-binding referendum was held, which had been scheduled by President Iohannis, in an effort to halt attempts by the PSD to weaken anti-corruption legislation. A majority of voters participating in the referendum supported Iohannis’s opinion that the Government should be barred from amending judicial legislation by emergency decree, and that amnesties and pardons in corruption cases should be prohibited. The PSD recorded a considerable loss of support in the elections to the European Parliament: the PNL won 11 seats, with 29.8% of the vote, ahead of the PSD, with nine seats (22.5%), an alliance led by the USR, USR PLUS (eight seats, 22.4%), a liberal party founded by Ponta, PRO Romãnia (nine seats, 6.4%), the Partidul Mişcarea Populară (People’s Movement Party—two seats, 5.8%) and the RMDSz (two seats, 5.3%).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>29 June 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Dăncilă was elected as President of the PSD, having assumed the role in an acting capacity following Dragnea’s imprisonment.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>10 October 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Dăncilă’s Government was removed from office by a vote of no confidence. This followed ALDE’s withdrawal of support for the Government in August, causing it to lose a parliamentary majority. Iohannis subsequently nominated Ludovic Orban, a former Minister of Transport and the leader of the PNL, as Prime Minister.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>4 November 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Orban took office at the head of a minority Government, which principally comprised members of the PNL. Marian Cătălin Predoiu was appointed as Minister of Justice and Vasile-Florin Cîţu became Minister of Public Finance; Bogdan Aurescu remained as Minister of Foreign Affairs.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>10 and 24 November 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The first round of voting in the presidential election was contested by 14 candidates; the incumbent, Iohannis, was first-placed, with 37.8% of the votes, followed by Dăncilă, with 22.3%. Turnout was recorded at 51.2%. In the run-off poll Iohannis was re-elected with 66.1% of the vote. The rate of participation by the electorate was 55.1%. Shortly after her defeat Dăncilă resigned as PSD leader; she was succeeded, initially on an interim basis, by Ion-Marcel Ciolacu, the President of the Chamber of Deputies since May.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>16 January 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Orban presented changes to electoral legislation, providing for mayoral elections to take place in two rounds, rather than under the simple majority system.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 February 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Orban’s Government was removed by a parliamentary vote of no confidence brought by the PSD.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>26 February 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Iohannis nominated Minister of Public Finance Vasile-Florin Cîţu as prime minister. However, Cîţu returned the mandate on 12 March, and two days later Orban was re-nominated; his Government was returned to office unchanged.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>19 March 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A state of emergency, declared by Iohannis in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, was adopted by Parliament; it expired on 15 May. It was followed by a state of alert, providing for more limited restrictions on social and economic activity, which was renewed on a monthly basis.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>26 March 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Minister of Health, Victor Costache, resigned; he was replaced by Nelu Tătaru.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 May 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The European Court of Human Rights ruled that Kövesi (who had been appointed to the newly created EU post of European Public Prosecutor) had been wrongfully dismissed in 2018 from her position at the head of the DNA.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>27 September 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In local elections (postponed from June owing to the pandemic), the PNL recorded a significant increase in support, obtaining 17 county council presidents, compared with the nine it had received at the 2016 polls, while the PSD obtained 20, compared with 28. Nicuor Dan, a well-known civic activist and an independent supported by USR PLUS, became Mayor of Bucharest, defeating the PSD incumbent.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 November 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In response to a resurgence in COVID-19 infection, heightened restrictions, including the imposition of a curfew and the closure of schools, were imposed; from February 2021 some of the measures were relaxed in certain regions, but further restrictions were imposed with effect from the following month.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>6 December 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Elections were held to both chambers of Parliament. The PSD was first-placed, but registered a loss in popular support overall, obtaining 110 seats (with 28.9% of votes cast) in the Chamber of Deputies and 47 seats (29.3%) in the Senate, while the PNL won, respectively, 93 seats (25.2%) and 41 seats (25.6%), and USR PLUS (formally constituted as a party in April 2021) won 55 seats (15.4%) and 25 seats (15.9%). A new nationalist party, the Alianţa Pentru Unirea Romãnilor (AUR—Gold—Alliance for the Unity of Romanians), secured 33 seats in the lower chamber (with 9.1% of the votes) and 14 in the Senate (9.2%). A voter participation rate of 31.9% overall was recorded. One day later Orban resigned as Prime Minister, and shortly afterwards (in his capacity as leader of the PNL) proposed Cîţu for the post.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>23 December 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament approved the formation of a Government headed by Cîţu, supported by an alliance of the PNL, USR PLUS and the RMDSz (which between them held a narrow majority in the Chamber of Deputies, with 169 seats). USR leader Ilie-Dan Barna and RMDSz President Hunor Kelemen were each awarded the post of Deputy Prime Minister. The PNL retained most principal portfolios (the hitherto transport minister, Lucian Nicolae Bode, becoming Minister of Internal Affairs), while Stelian-Cristian Ion of the USR was appointed Minister of Justice.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>14 April 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Vlad Voiculescu of USR PLUS was dismissed as Minister of Health, following adverse incidents in the overstrained health care system, including the deaths of three COVID-19 patients owing to the failure of ventilators.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 July 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Cîţu dismissed Alexandru Nazare as Minister of Finance and assumed the ministerial role in an interim capacity.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>1 September 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Cîţu dismissed Minister of Justice Ion of USR PLUS, after the party’s ministers boycotted a government meeting on an investment programme for local authorities. USR PLUS duly withdrew from the Government and with support from the nationalist AUR brought a motion of no confidence against Cîţu’s Government. The funding programme (which was widely regarded as intended to improve Cîţu’s standing among PNL mayors, prior to a party leadership contest) was adopted in the absence of USR PLUS ministers on 3 September.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>25 September 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Cîţu was elected as leader of the PNL, defeating Orban, who subsequently resigned as Chairman of the Chamber of Deputies.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>28 September 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Constitutional Court issued a ruling (which had been deferred until the PNL leadership contest had taken place) that the no confidence motion brought by USR PLUS and the AUR was valid. On the same day the PSD also submitted a motion of confidence against the Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 October 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The PSD motion was adopted with the support of 281 votes, resulting in the collapse of Cîţu’s Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>22 November 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>After two unsuccessful attempts had been made to form a new government, the PSD agreed to join a `grand coalition’ with the PNL and the UDMR, with Gen. (retd) Nicolae Ciucă, hitherto the Minister of National Defence, as Prime Minister. On the following day PSD leader Ciolacu was elected as Chairman of the Chamber of Deputies, while Cîţu was elected as Chairman of the Senate.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>25 November 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The new Government, led by Ciucă, was approved by Parliament, with the support of 318 deputies. PSD representatives included former premier Grindeanu as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Transport and Infrastructure, and Vasile Dîncu as Minister of National Defence. An independent, Adrian Cãciu, became Minister of Finance. Under the terms of the agreement with the PSD, the premiership was to pass to PSD leader Ciolacu in 2023.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 March 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following further surges in cases of COVID-19 during late 2021 and early 2022, the longstanding state of alert was finally lifted, along with most pandemic-related restrictions.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>10 April 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>After Cîţu announced his resignation from the PNL leadership on 2 April, Ciucă was elected to replace him.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>18 June 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A joint session of the Romanian and Moldovan Parliaments was hosted in the Moldovan capital Chişinău for the first time, resulting in agreements to enhance co-operation in energy matters, including a pledge to bring the Iaşi-Ungheni gas pipeline to full capacity.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>24 October 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Dîncu resigned as Minister of National Defence, citing differences with Iohannis, who had rebuked him following a statement advocating internationally co-ordinated talks with Russia (and an acceptance of the possible need for Ukraine to cede territory) as the only means of ending the conflict in Russo-Ukrainian conflict. He was succeeded by Angel Tîlvăr, also of the PSD. Dîncu’s resignation followed that of Sorin Cîmpeanu of the PNL, who had stepped down as Minister of Education in late September.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 November 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Constitutional Court rejected challenges to legislation on the judiciary, brought by the Ombudsman, and by USR and AUR deputies. The new legislation was intended to meet commitments under the EU’s Co-operation and Verification Mechanism (CVM), and had been adopted by the Government in August and (following amendments) approved by Parliament in October. It was enacted by Iohannis in mid-November, and on 22 November the European Commission concluded that Romania had made enough progress on judicial reform and tackling corruption for the CVM to be closed (although a final decision was dependent on endorsement by EU member states).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 December 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following opposition from Austria and the Netherlands (amid concerns over irregular migration), the Council of the EU rejected the entry of both Romania and Bulgaria to the Schengen zone of free movement.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>7 April 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Farmers protested in Bucharest and elsewhere against the inflow of large quantities of agricultural products from Ukraine, which had severely affected Romania’s agricultural sector. The Government announced that it was to strengthen quality monitoring and implement additional security measures with respect to the transport of products through its territory, but refrained from introducing a temporary ban on Ukrainian agricultural imports (as had been the situation in Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and Bulgaria).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>12 June 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ciucă resigned, in accordance with the 2021 power-sharing agreement with the PSD. His resignation had originally been expected on 25 May, but had been delayed amid widely observed strikes by teachers demanding increased wages. President Iohannis appointed Marian-Cătălin Predoiu, hitherto Minister of Justice, as Interim Prime Minister, prior to agreement on a new Government. On 13 June Ciucă was elected as Chairman of the Senate.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>15 June 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>After Iohannis nominated PSD President and hitherto Chairman of the lower house Ion-Marcel Ciolacu as Prime Minister on 13 June, the new Ciolacu Government was approved by Parliament. The UDMR did not form part of the new administration.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
     </chron-list>
</chronology>