<?xml version="1.0"?>
<country-survey id="LT.EC" id-root="lt" iso="lt" original-filename="ltuecon.rtf" print-style="PGWIDTH" sect-type="economy" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>Economy</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Lithuania</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Economy</alt-heading>
     <author-group>
          <primary-authors>
               <person-name>
                    <forename>Kęstutis</forename>
                    <surname>Girnius</surname>
               </person-name>
          </primary-authors>
          <other-authors>
      
      Revised by 
      <person-name>
                    <forename>Cvete</forename>
                    <surname> Koneska</surname>
               </person-name>
          </other-authors>
     </author-group>
     <p>Institute of International Relations and Political Science, Vilnius University, Lithuania.</p>
     <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P1">Following the Soviet occupation, Lithuania’s industrially underdeveloped, primarily agricultural, economy was subjected to the dictates of the central planning authorities in Moscow, the Russian and Soviet capital. Agriculture was collectivized, and industry and commerce were nationalized. By 1980 Lithuania’s standard of living was one of the highest among the republics of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR).</p>
     <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P2">The disadvantages of a centrally planned economy became evident after Lithuania regained independence in 1991. The industrial sector had become excessively energy-intensive, inefficient in its utilization of resources and incapable of manufacturing internationally competitive products. More than 90% of Lithuania’s trade was with the rest of the USSR, which supplied Lithuanian industry with raw materials for production and a market for its outputs.</p>
     <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P3">Governments took measures to reorientate the Lithuanian economy. Trade was redirected towards the West, most firms were privatized, and the services sector became the main generator of gross value added. The national currency, the litas, was stable, and from February 2002 its fixed rate of exchange was linked to the European common currency, the euro, instead of the US dollar. The economy made an impressive recovery after a major downturn in 1999. Entry into the European Union (EU) in May 2004 indicated that Lithuania had become a functioning market economy. However, challenges remained. Productivity rose more slowly than wages, the standard of living was low, rural areas remained blighted, and research and development was underfunded.</p>
     <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P4">Since independence, economic growth has been punctuated by three downturns, all of which were related to external shocks. The first commenced in 1991 as Lithuania severed its trading links with the former USSR, modernized inefficient industrial plants and built up the services sector. Gross domestic product (GDP) declined by 21.3% in 1992 and by 16.2% in 1993. The contraction in GDP and in industrial production was accompanied by a surge in inflation that reached its apex in 1992. The adoption of a currency board helped to stabilize the currency. Privatization of most small and medium-sized enterprises proceeded at a steady pace. By December 1995 a reported 83% of state-owned assets designated for privatization had been transferred to private ownership, and most Lithuanians owned their residences. As reforms took effect in 1995 the Lithuanian economy recovered and registered growth of 3.3%. Macroeconomic stability was achieved by 1996, and GDP increased by more than 5% annually during 1996-98.</p>
     <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P5">In 1999 the Lithuanian economy entered into another recession, owing to the effects of financial crisis in the Russian Federation and the Government’s inadequate response to the emerging problems; GDP declined by 4.2%, in real terms, and industrial production by almost 14%. In 2000 the Lithuanian economy recovered as GDP increased by 4.9%, caused primarily by a 7.6% increase in industrial value added. The economic upturn accelerated in 2001, and average annual GDP growth of 8.4% was recorded during 2002-07. </p>
     <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P6">The rate of growth was unsustainable, but the global economic crisis of 2008-09 greatly exacerbated the downturn, which plunged Lithuania into its deepest economic crisis. In 2009 GDP declined by 14.7%, while wages fell by about 10%. As a result of the Government’s austerity programme, the population’s willingness to accept a significant internal devaluation and the resurgence in exports and retail sales, the economy registered an impressive recovery, driven primarily by export growth. The economy grew at an average annual rate of 4.1% during 2011-14 and by about 2% in both 2015 and 2016. Stimulated by rising exports and strong investment growth, GDP increased by an annual average of 4.0% in 2017-19, falling by 0.1% in 2020, but recovering to growth of 5.0% in 2021. At the end of 2021 GDP totalled some €55,300m., at current prices. Despite positive projections for growth in 2022, due to the Russian Federation’s invasion of Ukraine in February and its adverse effects on European economies, Lithuania only recorded growth of 2.2% in that year, and projections for 2023, of just 0.5%, are lower still.</p>
     <p>The ability of Lithuania’s economy to grow after 2008 and during the COVID-19 pandemic of 2020-21 demonstrated its increased flexibility and responsiveness to market conditions. However, the effects of the geopolitical shock resulting from the war in Ukraine and of Western sanctions imposed against Russia may prove more difficult to overcome. None the less, according to estimates by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), GDP per capita, on an international purchasing-power parity (PPP) basis, had increased from US $10,651 in 2001 to $38,605 in 2020, growing at an average annual rate of 7.2%. In 2018 Lithuania became a member of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), a further demonstration of its economic progress.</p>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Domestic Sectors</heading>
          <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P7">The structure of the Lithuanian economy underwent major changes from the 1990s. The shares of industry and of agriculture declined sharply, while the services sector assumed an ever more dominant role. The contribution of industry (including construction) to overall GDP decreased from some 65% in 1991 to 30.0% in 2022, while that of agriculture (including hunting, forestry and fishing) declined from about 20% to 4.4% over the same period. The services sector accounted for 65.6% of GDP in 2022, with the trade, transport and food service sectors being the most important components.</p>
          <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P8">The structure of industry altered greatly. The sectors that had the closest links with Russian plants were affected the most adversely. The manufacture of machinery, which comprised 27% of industrial output in 1990, accounted for just 2.5% by 1997; production of electronic equipment registered a similar decline. The large industrial plants that were the pride of Soviet Lithuanian industry had a mixed fate. The decommissioning of the Ignalina nuclear power plant, which had supplied about 85% of Lithuania’s energy, was completed at the end of 2009, at the insistence of the EU. The Mažeikiai Nafta petroleum refinery (with its associated terminal and pipeline), located in a logistically inconvenient area, has had prolonged financial difficulties, despite being Lithuania’s largest company, exporter and taxpayer. A stake in Mažeikiai Nafta was sold to Williams International of the USA in 1999, and subsequently to Russian petroleum company Yukos in 2002, and the refinery was acquired by PKN Orlen of Poland in 2006. The loss-making refinery returned to profitability in 2016. After adapting to be able to process non-Russian oil, the refinery stopped using Russian crude in March 2022, replacing it with oil from Saudi Arabia.</p>
          <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P11">Overall, industrial production increased steadily in 2001-08, with growth peaking at some 8.1% in 2006. After industrial production declined by 14.6% in 2009, increased competitiveness and successes in finding new markets led to a sharp rise in the export of manufactured goods, driving economic recovery. Output increased by 7.0% in 2010, by 7.4% in 2011 and by 4.2% in 2012, finally surpassing the level of 2008. Since 2013 production has grown at a steady pace; it decreased by 1.9% in 2020, before recovering to growth of 10.7% in 2021, and it slowed again in 2022 due to the overall economic downturn. Low- and medium-technology firms account for about 80% of manufacturing output. Lithuania specializes in the manufacture of motor vehicle parts, paper and wood products, and chemicals, notably fertilizers. The food and beverages sector—the largest by sales, accounting for about 20% of the total—grew rapidly, aided by EU export subsidies. Lithuanian industrial products are primarily aimed at the export market, with subcontracting playing a major role, particularly with regard to petroleum products, textiles and electronic and electrical goods. The shortage of skilled workers, many of whom have migrated abroad, has had a dampening effect on manufacturing.</p>
          <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P12">Efforts to expand into the knowledge economy have had limited success. Nevertheless, in 2018 investments by Lithuanian and foreign firms reached a record €148.8m. The Lithuanian Government has identified lasers, biotechnology, nanotechnology and information technology as priority areas for investment and subsidies. In general, investment grew at an impressive pace until it dropped sharply in 2009. Subsequently it has recovered, however, and by 2014 it exceeded the EU average. According to EU data, by 2023 innovation in Lithuania represented 83.8% of the EU average, compared with data for 2011, when it was equivalent to 55.4%.</p>
          <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P13">The construction industry expanded in the 2000s, fuelled by easy access to credit. EU funds have been used to modernize municipal facilities and repair roads. Rapid growth in construction ended in 2008, when the housing market collapsed. The construction of buildings and civil engineering experienced declines of 64.9% and 32.8%, respectively, during 2008-10, and smaller declines in 2012. The overall number of enterprises in the sector decreased by 17.6% between 2008 and 2013, and the total number of employees declined by 25.0%. A modest recovery began in 2011. The construction sector accounted for about 7.3% of Lithuania’s GDP in 2020 and 7.0% in 2021. EU funds are central to stimulating growth in the construction industry. For the period 2014-20 some €1,100m. was allocated to the development of transport infrastructure. European institutions helped to finance energy infrastructure projects and the rehabilitation and renovation of schools, kindergartens and residential housing. In August 2021 the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) granted a loan of €67.5m. to improve the energy performance of old residential buildings by 40%.</p>
          <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P14">Meanwhile, the agricultural sector underwent a large-scale transformation. In the early 1990s the huge state and collective farms were disbanded, and most agricultural land was returned to its previous owners or their heirs. Animal husbandry, which had accounted for some two-thirds of the aggregate value of agricultural production in the Soviet years, declined dramatically, with the number of animals reduced by more than one-half. Crop farming became the leading agricultural sector, but most fields continued to be sown with grain and forage crops, and the remainder with potatoes, flax and sugar beet. In 2016 crops accounted for about 65% of agricultural output and animal husbandry for 35%. Since 2007 agriculture’s share of GDP has remained relatively constant, at about 3%-4%. After a recent sharp decline in the number of agricultural workers, the sector engaged an estimated 5.7% of the employed labour force in 2020, significantly more than the 3% EU average. Some 35% of farmers are aged 65 years or more (compared with an EU average of 30%). Individual farms were too small and unproductive to be viable, and between 2003 and 2010 approximately one in four agricultural holdings closed. In 2020 the average size of an individual holding was 19.3 ha, an increase of almost 100% since Lithuania joined the EU. The average size of a commercial firm is now 500 ha, compared with 462.5 ha five years earlier. Commercial farms make up 15% of all farms, and they have experimented with the production of industrial crops, such as sugar beets and rapeseed oil. In 2014 the value of total agricultural production decreased by 5.8%, owing to a sharp fall in purchase prices for agricultural goods and a ban on the import of agricultural products from the EU imposed by Russia, which had been the main importer of Lithuania’s agricultural output. The value of agricultural production fell by 9.5% in 2018, increased by 14% in 2019 and by 5.2% in 2020, and decreased by 0.9% in 2021. Crops accounted for 65% of total production, and animal husbandry for 35%.</p>
          <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P15">Wholesale and retail trade, transportation, hotels and restaurants have played a significant role in the services sector. Retail trade increased at an annual rate of almost 15% between 2003 and 2007, reflecting rising wages and employment, combined with low interest rates and lower taxes. Sharp increases in sales of appliances, household furnishing and clothing reflected the growing purchasing power of many Lithuanians. The recession exacted a toll on household expenditure, which declined by 15.5% during 2008-11, representing the highest percentage decline in the EU. Retail sales subsequently steadied and increased every month from October 2010 until March 2020, when the COVID-19 pandemic led to the closure of many businesses, and a further decline was precipitated by the economic slowdown during 2022. Due to the pandemic, mail and internet sales surged by 50.2% and 41.6% in 2020 and 2021, respectively. Retail trade increased by 12.9% in 2021.</p>
          <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P16">The Government aspires for Lithuania to become a regional transport and logistics hub. It has benefited from its location on the overland transport route from Western Europe to Russia, as well as between metropolitan Russia and its Kaliningrad exclave. Major markets have included Russia, Germany, Belarus and Denmark. The recession of 2009 had a major impact, but volumes recovered gradually and did so again after the EU imposed economic sanctions against Russia in 2014; however, the impact of the more stringent series of European economic sanctions applied against Russia from February 2022 is likely to last longer. The output of the transport sector declined by 2.0% overall in 2015, grew slightly in 2016, then rose by almost 20% in 2017 and by 3.5% in 2021. The transport and communications sector employed about 160,700 people in 2022. Road and rail transport are the most important sub-sectors. There has been a significant reorientation from Russian to Western European markets. In 2018 Latvia, Poland and Germany were among Lithuania’s largest recipients of transport services, surpassing Russia, the traditional leading destination. Regulatory changes mandated by the EU’s `mobility package’ of 2020, such as the mandatory return of trucks to their countries of origin, could cause trucking companies to move part of their operations to Poland, which is closer to Western European destinations. The completion of the Rail Baltica project, linking Finland, the Baltic states and Poland with a European standard-gauge railway line, is expected to boost transport and logistic services. The Government has made substantial investments in the infrastructure of the port at Klaipėda, the northernmost year-round ice-free port on the eastern coast of the Baltic Sea. Since 2017 Klaipėda port has recorded the largest annual cargo tonnage among ports in the Baltic states, handling about 46m. metric tons annually during 2018-20. The port is the most important logistics hub in Lithuania for sea, road and rail transportation, and together with the companies that operate at the port it accounts for an estimated 6% of GDP. An EU ban on imports from Belarus and Russia, as part of the sanctions imposed from February 2022, had a substantial negative impact, including on the state rail company, Lietuvos Geležinkeliai. Tonnage decreased by about 9% in 2022.</p>
          <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P17">In 2003 the Lithuanian fixed-line telecommunications market was deregulated. The number of fixed lines declined sharply, as the mobile cellular telephone market expanded rapidly. By the end of 2013 the mobile penetration rate was 151%. Access to the internet has also grown. Lithuania is among the top five countries in the EU in terms of broadband penetration (82% of all households) and internet speed, as well as having the highest fixed fibre to the home penetration rate. Lithuania ranked sixth on the draft Global Cybersecurity Index for 2020, published by the United Nations (UN)—a significant improvement from its placing of 57th in 2017.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Foreign Trade and Payments</heading>
          <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P18">The composition and direction of Lithuania’s international trade altered significantly following independence. In 1991 more than 93% of Lithuania’s total trade was with the other Soviet nations. By 2021 the EU accounted for 57.7% of exports and 67.4% of imports. Despite the trade sanctions that the EU imposed on Russia in 2014, Russia remained Lithuania’s most important trading partner, although its role has continued to decline. In 2021 Russia’s share of exports and imports were 10.9% and 12.0%, respectively, compared with 13.4% and 12.1% in 2019. Lithuania had remained dependent on Russia for petroleum and other raw materials and as a market for some of its less competitive goods, including food products, wood pulp and plastics. However, compliance with additional EU sanctions imposed following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, as well as Lithuania’s ensuing ban on the import of Russian oil and gas, together with the decision of many Lithuanian firms to close their businesses in Russia, resulted in a 35% reduction in trade volumes with Russia in 2022. Latvia, Poland and Germany are Lithuania’s other principal export partners, although Russia remains among the top five trading partners. Lithuania’s principal exports to the EU states are oil products, raw materials, such as wood, and low-cost goods. There has also been an increase in the export of assembled goods, such as machinery and transport equipment, and electronics. Machinery and mechanical appliances, electrical equipment, chemicals and allied industries also account for a substantial share of both exports and imports.</p>
          <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P19">Exports have played an increasingly important role in the economy, driving the recovery that began in 2010. In 2015 and 2016 exports and imports of goods both fell, in part because of sharp declines in the international price of petroleum products and in trade with Russia. However, international trade recovered strongly in 2017. Growth in trade moderated in 2019 and fell modestly in 2020—exports by 3.2% and imports by 8.7%—owing to the pandemic. Foreign trade rebounded sharply in 2021, as exports grew by 20.5% and imports by 29.6%. Lithuania had a substantial trade deficit from 1994. The sale of raw materials, semi-finished products, textiles and agricultural goods did not offset the cost of imports of natural gas and petroleum from Russia, and automobiles, heavy machinery and high-technology products from the West. Until 2002 the imbalance between imports and exports was exacerbated further by the appreciation of the national currency, the litas, pegged as it was to the US dollar, against the currencies of the EU and the Commonwealth of Independent States. Growing consumer demand and the need for capital goods have kept the trade deficit high. In 2007, at the height of the period of rapid growth, the value of imports exceeded that of exports by 40%. During 2010-14 Lithuania recorded a positive monthly trade balance on only two occasions. In both 2016 and 2017 the trade deficit was about €2,000m., and it increased to about €2,400m. in 2018 and 2019. In 2020 the deficit was significantly less, at just €353.5m., but it increased sharply in 2021, as exports increased to €34,580m. and imports to €37,775m., and it continued to grow during 2022, reaching about €470m. at the end of that year. </p>
          <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P21">The growing trade deficit contributed to an uncomfortably high current account deficit on the balance of payments. In 1997-99 it averaged more than 11% of GDP. In 2000 the deficit declined by 43.5%, representing only 6.0% of GDP. In the following years the current account deficit increased as strong real wage growth and cheap credit fuelled domestic demand for foreign consumer goods. Although strong economic growth moderated its increase as a share of GDP, the deficit grew dramatically, amounting to 13.7% of GDP in 2007. The deficit narrowed slightly in 2008, but as the recession deepened, undermining consumption and investment, Lithuania recorded a current account surplus of 6.7% of GDP in 2009 and of 2.3% in 2010. Small current account deficits were registered in 2010-12 and small surpluses in 2013 and 2014. Owing to the decline in exports to Russia, the current account balance was slightly in deficit in 2015 and 2016. Surpluses of less than 1.0% were recorded in 2017 and 2018, increasing to 4.3% and 8.3% in 2019 and 2020, respectively. In 2021 the balance was in surplus by 1.4%. However, the economic downturn in 2022 led to a 5.1% deficit by the end of that year. </p>
          <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P22">Lithuania has had a mixed record in attracting foreign direct investment (FDI). After independence successive governments were reluctant to privatize the largest firms, particularly in the energy sector, primarily owing to fears that their sale to foreign, especially Russian, interests would render Lithuania subject to external manipulation. Perceptions of corruption and a lack of transparency also had a restraining effect on investment until the late 1990s, when the rate of FDI per head remained lower than in Estonia and Latvia. In the early and mid-1990s foreign firms invested primarily in the food, clothing and textiles industries, which could be renovated quickly to produce competitive goods for export. Petroleum processing and the chemicals sector also received substantial investment. In 1997 the Government adopted a more aggressive campaign to attract foreign investors and began to privatize major industrial firms, including the telephone company Lietuvos Telekomas AB and the Mažeikiai refinery (see above), as well as the state banks. FDI increased significantly after Lithuania joined the EU. It has grown at a modest pace subsequently, but fell by 43.2% in 2021, amounting to €1,700m. The flow of FDI over 2022 amounted to some €2,000m. and, compared with 2021, fell by 15.5%, owing to a decline in reinvestment. Financial and insurance services have received the greatest share of total FDI (more than one-fifth), followed by manufacturing. Important foreign investment partners in 2022 were the United Kingdom, Sweden and Latvia.</p>
          <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P23">Lithuanian investment abroad doubled during 2005-08, falling slightly in 2009-11. Significant decreases were recorded in 2015 and 2016, with a slight fall in 2017, followed by an increase of 23.5% in 2018. In 2022 investment abroad increased by 4.4% and reached €10,600m. Lithuania’s investment in EU member states accounted for 53.7% of the total, and investment in euro area countries for 43.6%, while investment in the USA provided 40.4%. </p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Monetary and Fiscal Policy</heading>
          <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P24">A strict monetary policy enabled Lithuania to moderate inflation and establish a stable national currency. Lithuania withdrew from the rouble zone in October 1992, when the country was on the verge of hyperinflation. The rate of inflation was 1,020% in 1992. Despite the introduction of the litas in 1993, inflation remained high. The decisive measure, taken in April 1994, was the adoption of the currency-board system, fixing the litas to the US dollar. By 1996 price inflation had declined to an annual average of 24.6%, and the rate decreased steadily thereafter, diminishing to an annual rate of increase of about 1.0% in 1999-2001. On 1 February 2002 the litas was `repegged’ to the euro, reducing exchange rate fluctuations with Lithuania’s main trading partners and providing a stable environment for continued growth. Lithuania was one of the first new EU member states to join the Exchange Rate Mechanism. Inflation increased thereafter, surging to 11.1% in 2008, owing primarily to rising prices for energy and food, health care costs and wage growth. The recession caused a sharp reduction in the inflation rate, which averaged about 3% during 2009-16. In 2017 inflation accelerated to a rate of 3.8%, the highest level since 2011, but fell to 2.7% in 2018, 2.3% in 2019 and 1.2% in 2020, driven primarily by the cost of services and food products. Inflation increased sharply in 2022, driven by high energy and food costs as a result of the war in Ukraine and the economic sanctions on Russia, reaching 15.6% at the end of that year. Although the inflation rate is forecast to decline to below 10% in 2023, a return to the low inflation rates of the past decade will prove difficult in the current challenging economic and geopolitical context.</p>
          <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P25">Governments have generally practised fiscal prudence. For most of the 1990s government deficits, including social security payments, averaged about 2% of GDP. During the recession of 1999 the budget deficit increased to about 5.7% of GDP as the Government continued its expansionary fiscal policies. During 2000-12 the government deficit averaged 3.2% of GDP, with a low of 0.4% in 2006 and a record high of 9.4% in 2009. The latter figure was recorded despite the Government’s strict austerity programme, which resulted in fiscal consolidation equivalent to 9.0% of GDP. In 2013 the budget deficit was equivalent to 2.2% of GDP, declining thereafter. Modest budget surpluses, of about 0.5% of GDP, were recorded in 2017-19. In 2020 the budget balance deteriorated to record a deficit of 7.3% of GDP, but this fell to 1.0% in 2021, and amounted to around 2.0% in 2022. In the early 2000s the Government had placed the social security system on a sounder financial basis, curtailed benefits for working pensioners, raised the qualifying pensionable age and greatly reduced administrative costs, generating modest budget surpluses during 2001-07. In 2008 a 30% increase in benefits brought about a substantial growth in social security-related debt, but in 2018 the social security budget once again recorded a modest surplus.</p>
          <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P26">After rising sharply in the early 1990s, public sector debt stabilized. In the early 2000s strong economic growth reduced the debt as a share of GDP, despite increased government borrowing. However, government debt increased almost threefold during 2008-12, reaching a total of €13,265m., or 39.8% of GDP. Recent fiscal surpluses and the retirement of bonds reduced government debt to 34.2% of GDP in 2018. Government debt rose to 35.9% of GDP in 2019 and to 47.3% in 2020, but fell to 44.3% of GDP, or €24,500m., in 2021, and to below 40% of GDP in 2022, which is well within the eurozone requirements (60% of GDP). </p>
          <p>Loans from commercial banks and financial institutions accounted for most of the debt. Private, corporate and personal debt increased sharply until 2008 as foreign banks offered credit on easy terms. The repercussions of the 2008 financial crisis had a negative effect on weaker financial institutions. In November 2011 the Government nationalized Bankas Snoras—the country’s third largest bank in terms of savings deposits—after it discovered that about €300m. in assets were missing. In 2013 Ūkio Bankas was declared bankrupt as the result of mismanagement and suspected embezzlement. Several credit unions were also closed. In contrast to bank bankruptcies in the mid-1990s, no panic or bank runs ensued, as most deposits were insured. The banking sector is stable and financially sound, with capital adequacy and liquidity rising from already healthy levels. The sector remains highly concentrated and is dominated by three Nordic-owned banks that represent a market share of around 85%. Overall credit growth was sluggish, prompting some complaints from the business community. However, in 2015 bank lending returned to positive growth, ending the extensive deleveraging that commenced in 2009.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Standards of Living and Employment</heading>
          <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P27">The economic turmoil that followed the demise of the USSR had severe consequences for many Lithuanians. In 1991-96 inflation eroded the savings of most of the population, and real wages and pensions decreased dramatically, leading to the impoverishment of a significant portion of the population. Social inequality also increased markedly. With the decline in earning power, a disproportionate share of income was spent on necessities. The average family spent some 60% of its budget on food in 1994, but only about 25% by 2016.</p>
          <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P28">The improvement in living standards in the late 1990s and the early 2000s was driven by steady growth in real wages, which increased at an average annual rate of 6.2% in 2002-05 and by some 15% in 2006-07, far exceeding the pace of productivity growth. Real wages fell in 2009-11, but returned to growth in 2012, reaching their pre-crisis level in 2013, and have increased by more than 8% annually since 2017. At the end of 2022 the average monthly gross wage amounted to €1,900, while the median wage was €857. The minimum monthly wage in Lithuania has increased from €350 at the beginning of 2016 to €840 in 2023, and is no longer the lowest among the Baltic states. However, Lithuania still has one of the highest shares of low-wage earners in the EU. At the end of 2021 29% of all workers (418,000) were earning the minimum wage. Agricultural wages remained the lowest, and those in the financial and energy sectors the highest. The wage differential between urban and rural dwellers remains substantial, while that between men and women has risen in recent years and reached 14.2% in 2018. Wage growth exceeded productivity growth in 2014-16, although this was offset temporarily by other factors, such as lower prices for raw materials. Lithuanian pensions are still meagre, despite rising by 34% between 2016 and 2019. From 1 January 2022 the average old-age pension was increased to €465 per month, and to €489 for those who had worked a sufficient number of years to benefit from a higher rate. The pension fund was budgeted to increase by 11.9% in 2022 and to grow substantially in 2023. Indexation of the rise in the cost of living was introduced in January 2018. Despite these positive developments, in 2018 a total of 42.7% of Lithuanians aged 65 years and over were at risk of poverty and social exclusion. Unsurprisingly, more than one-quarter of all citizens between the ages of 60 and 70 are still in employment.</p>
          <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P29">The initial restructuring of industry and agriculture following Lithuanian independence, as well as the reduction in the size of the public sector, increased unemployment. The official rate of unemployment increased from 6.2% in 1998 to a high of 17.4% in 2001. Limited opportunities for retraining and the concentration of available employment in the major cities, which lacked affordable accommodation, represented an obstacle to improvements in the labour market. From 2003 robust economic growth radically reduced the average rate of unemployment until the crisis of 2008, when the rate soared to 13.7% in 2009 and 17.8% in 2010. An upward trend in hiring commenced in 2011. At the end of 2019 the unemployment rate stood at 6.3%, but it increased to 8.5% in 2020, before declining again, to 5.5%, in 2022. Progress has been made in reducing youth unemployment, which declined from 25.7% in 2012 to 11.5% in 2021. By 2020 the employment rate for those aged 15-64 years stood at 71.6%, which was slightly above the EU average of 68.9%. The employment rate for men aged 15-64 years was 72.2%, while for women it was 71%, both rates having declined slightly from 2019.</p>
          <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P30">Substantial migration to other European countries and a low birth rate have led to a decline in population and a reduction in the size of the labour force. The young and better-educated constitute a disproportionate share of Lithuanian emigrants (in 2017 one-third were in the 20-29 year age-group), leading to deepening fears that Lithuania is losing the skilled workers necessary for it to be competitive in the EU. Moreover, if fewer young workers enter the labour market each year, unit labour costs, which grew by 4.6% in 2020, will continue to increase, undermining price competitiveness and damaging external trade.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Prospects</heading>
          <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P31">Despite three earlier difficult periods, in 1991-93, 1998-2000, and 2009-10, the Lithuanian economy has made substantial progress since independence. Many of its major indicators compare favourably with other Central and Eastern European countries. The Switzerland-based World Economic Forum ranked Lithuania 39th out of 141 countries in its Global Competitiveness Index for 2019. The volatile banking sector has been stabilized. Lithuania is fiscally prudent; it recorded budget surpluses between 2017 and 2019 and, while a large deficit was recorded in 2020, it fell sharply in 2021. Lithuania’s foreign debt is modest. The country fulfilled its commitments to the IMF, and trade was redirected towards the West. The taxation system has been modernized, but efforts to shift towards more growth-friendly taxes, such as real estate taxes, have failed. Prices and trade have been liberalized, and the general investment climate has improved. In 2020 Lithuania ranked 11th of 190 countries in the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business Index (fourth among EU states) and 17th in the Heritage Foundation’s Index of Economic Freedom in 2022, indicating that the Government is succeeding in its efforts to reduce bureaucracy and excessive regulations. The country has benefited from numerous positive intangibles: political stability, lack of ethnic strife, favourable geographical location and, from 2004, membership of the EU. Lithuania’s adoption of the euro in 2015 was a clear indication of the competitiveness of its economy, as was its accession to the OECD in 2018.</p>
          <p>In 2020-21 the Lithuanian economy faced a new challenge: the COVID-19 pandemic. The Government reacted according to the rate of infection, instituting stringent lockdowns of the economy when it rose, and easing restrictions when it declined, a policy that was relatively successful in minimizing economic disruption. In 2020 GDP declined by only 0.1%, the lowest rate in the Baltics, and it grew by a vigorous 5.0% in 2021, easily surpassing expectations. Lithuania contended with two further obstacles during 2022. The EU economic sanctions introduced against Russia and Belarus following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, Lithuania’s subsequent termination of the import of energy products from Russia, the decision by most Lithuanian firms to suspend trade with both countries and close their businesses there and the effect on the transportation sector posed a serious challenge to the country’s economy. Lithuanian firms had hoped to replace the lost business by finding new partners and markets in Asia. This effort was hindered by the response of the People’s Republic of China at Lithuania’s decision in 2021 to allow the Republic of China (Taiwan) to open a Taiwanese Representative Office in Vilnius, a move that the Chinese Government condemned as a blatant violation of its `One China’ policy. China has not only downgraded its diplomatic ties with Lithuania but also banned the import of many Lithuanian, particularly agricultural, products. The Chinese Government hinted that it could impose `US-style sanctions’ that would prohibit any company from selling products using Chinese components or technologies to Lithuania. China also pressed European and US companies to suspend the manufacture of products with components made in Lithuania or risk losing access to the Chinese markets. If consistently implemented, such sanctions could dissuade European countries from investing and building factories in Lithuania.</p>
          <p>Lithuania has many of the features of an advanced economy. Its exports come from `medium high-technology’ industries, rather than from textiles and food products. The services sector is more than twice the size of the manufacturing and agriculture sectors combined. However, greater integration into the world economy made Lithuania more vulnerable to global fluctuations. Even before the beginning of the international economic crisis in 2008, rising energy costs slowed investment, and inexpensive loans from Western banks led to a housing `bubble’ and an overheated economy. The negative impact of the crisis on Lithuania was especially severe. State insolvency became a real possibility. The Government succeeded in stabilizing the situation without devaluing the currency or seeking loans from the IMF through the imposition of a stringent austerity programme that resulted in double-digit decreases in GDP and real wages. Lithuania staged a strong recovery, registering annual average GDP growth of 2.0% in 2012-21, according to World Bank data.</p>
          <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P33">The crisis revealed major shortcomings in Lithuania’s economy: a burst of imprudent government spending; a bloated bureaucracy; wage increases that outstripped productivity growth; an explosion in borrowing fed by a ready supply of loans and a pent-up demand for consumer goods and better housing; and the unrealistic belief that growth would continue regardless of circumstances and that EU membership would prevent Lithuania from experiencing a serious economic downturn. Many of these problems have been addressed: government spending was reduced, and programmes introduced to stimulate export trade (export-related production accounting for about 60% of GDP) and jobs. In 2017 Parliament approved a `new social model’ that included structural reforms in the labour market and pension and social welfare systems, with the aim of easing regulations, and making the labour market more flexible and investment in Lithuania more attractive. The Government has given priority to accelerating the growth of the knowledge economy and attracting more investment in the IT sector. It has invested about €600m. (primarily from EU structural funds) in science and technology and to build a number of regional centres, integrating technology and business, on the model of the USA’s `Silicon Valley’. Several companies produce sophisticated biotechnology products, such as pharmaceutical substances, components for molecular diagnostics and laser equipment. However, progress has been slow, and the Government has achieved limited success in convincing high-technology firms to build facilities in Lithuania. In 2021 the World Intellectual Property Organization ranked Lithuania 39th in its innovation index, just ahead of Poland and just behind Latvia. The organization noted shortcomings in Lithuania in funding for education and science and limited co-operation between business and research institutes. The country lags behind in innovation, not only in science, but also in upgrading product line-ups and internal processes. Nevertheless, it was a leader in information and communication technology adoption in 2020, according to the World Economic Forum.</p>
          <p>The financial technology (fintech) sector has doubled in size since 2016 and is one of the fastest-growing high value-added sectors of the Lithuanian economy. By the beginning of 2019 the Lithuanian authorities had issued 83 licences to such firms—more than any other European country apart from the UK—and about another 100 financial companies and start-ups had applied for a licence, hoping to ensure access to the EU after the UK’s withdrawal from the bloc at the end of January 2020. At the end of 2021 the number of fully licensed fintech firms in Lithuania had increased to 147 and was the largest in the EU. The Government has embarked on an ambitious plan to restructure Lithuania’s system of higher education by reducing the number of institutions, consolidating programmes, prioritizing disciplines that match the needs of its economy, and increasing scholarships for students specializing in the sciences and mathematics. Secondary education is also an area of concern, as secondary school students have tested below the EU average in reading, mathematics and science.</p>
          <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P34">Lithuania has also reduced its dependence on Russia energy, which was perhaps the highest in Europe. In 2021 Lithuania paid €3,000m. for imports of Russian natural gas, oil and electricity. In March 2022 the adapted Mažeikiai oil refinery began to process only crude oil supplied by Saudi Arabia, while the liquefied natural gas terminal in Klaipėda allowed Lithuania to terminate completely the import of gas from Russia. On 1 May a 508-km gas pipeline connecting Poland and Lithuania, the Gas Interconnection Poland-Lithuania (GIPL), commenced operations. The GIPL links the natural gas transmission systems of Poland and Lithuania, integrating the three Baltic states and Finland into the EU energy market. Government bodies and individual organizations have cancelled most contracts for the purchase of electricity from the Russian-owned Inter RAO Lietuva. Important steps in reducing dependence on Russian electricity previously occurred in 2016, when the Nordbalt (formerly Swedlink) underwater power cable connecting the Swedish power grid to that of Lithuania commenced operations, as did the 500-MW LitPol Link, the `energy bridge’ between Lithuania and Poland. The Baltic states and Poland have embarked on synchronizing their electric grids with that of continental Europe, while disconnecting from the Russian-Belarusian system. The total value of the synchronization project, which is scheduled to be completed in 2025, is €1,600m., with the EU funding the majority of the cost.</p>
          <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P35">Lithuania’s tax base is underdeveloped. It has one of lowest overall tax-to-GDP ratios in the EU, of 29.8% in 2018, as there are no real estate, automobile or wealth taxes. This tax regime benefits business, but is a liability when a government seeks to stimulate the economy, fund the entitlements and salaries of government workers or provide essential services. In 2018 Lithuania’s expenditure on social welfare was just 11.2% of GDP, one of the lowest percentages in the EU. Overall government spending amounted to 34.0% of GDP, with only Ireland spending proportionately less among EU countries.</p>
          <p id="LITHUANIA.ECONOMY.ED.DF.P36">The ageing of Lithuania’s population and migration threaten to undermine the modernization of the economy. Lithuania’s death rate is one of the highest in the EU, and the fertility rate of 1.3 children per woman in 2021 is far below the rate of 2.1 needed to sustain a stable population. The number of Lithuanians aged between 15 and 64 years fell from 2.5m. in 1990 to 1.8m. in 2020, and the number of 18-year-olds has decreased by more than one-third since 2011. In 2021 more Lithuanians died and fewer were born than in any year since 1961, as the number of deaths (47,746) was around twice that of births (23,330), although mortality was partly driven by the COVID-19 pandemic. For more than a decade, emigration exceeded immigration by about 22,000 annually. In 2019 the population increased for the first time in 28 years, while in 2020, for the first time since 2001, the number of residents who returned to Lithuania exceeded those who emigrated, by 5,500. In 2021 35,889 persons immigrated to Lithuania, one-half of whom were citizens. In January 2023 Lithuania had only 2.9m. permanent residents, compared with 3.7m. in 1989. The EU’s statistical office estimation that Lithuania’s population will fall to 2.0m. by 2050 might be excessively pessimistic, as the rate of emigration is decreasing and that of immigration, particularly from Ukraine, is growing.</p>
          <p>At the beginning of 2021 67.5% of the population was living in urban areas, and 32.4% in rural areas. Much needs to be done to revitalize rural areas, which have great difficulty in attracting FDI. Government programmes that make liberal use of EU structural funds have diminished inequality in living standards, but the average salary of villagers is only about 70% of the urban figure. Moreover, life expectancy in the countryside remains much lower than in urban areas, while mortality and morbidity rates are significantly higher. Wages in Lithuania increased almost three-fold in the period from 2000 to 2022. Since 2016 Lithuanian governments have made serious and consequential efforts to reduce social inequality and improve the situation of the lowest earners, increasing the minimum wage and pensions by about 8.0% per year and substantially enhancing child benefits.</p>
          <p>Despite its many achievements—in 2021 Lithuania ranked 45th worldwide in terms of GDP per capita on an international PPP basis, at about 88% of the EU average—further progress is still needed. That the relative poverty rate, defined as earning no more than 60% of their country’s median income, is the sixth highest in the EU, morbidity and mortality rates are significantly higher than in western Europe, and 15%-20% of the population have emigrated since 2004, primarily in search of jobs, all illustrate continued challenges.</p>
     </gen-section>
</country-survey>