<?xml version="1.0"?>
<country-survey id="LT.GE" id-root="lt" iso="lt" original-filename="ltugeog.rtf" print-style="PGWIDTH" sect-type="geography" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <country-head>Lithuania</country-head>
     <heading>Geography</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Lithuania</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Geography</alt-heading>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Physical Features</heading>
          <p id="LT.GEOG.1">The Republic of Lithuania is situated on the eastern shore of the Baltic Sea, in north-eastern Europe. It is bounded by Latvia to the north, Belarus to the south-east, Poland to the south-west and by the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad Oblast to the west. It covers an area of 65,286 sq&#160;km (25,207 sq&#160;miles).</p>
          <p id="LT.GEOG.2">The low-lying littoral along the Baltic coastline, known as the Pajūrio Lowland, extends some 15 km-20&#160;km from the sea. To the east of the coastal plain lies the Žemaičių Upland, which rises to a height of 234&#160;m (772&#160;ft) at Medvġalis. The Upland is separated from the Baltic Highlands of the south and east by a long plain across the central regions, called the Middle Lowland. The highest point in Lithuania is at Juozapinė (294&#160;m), in the east of the country. There is a dense network of waterways, the main river being the Nemunas (Neman), which flows from the south to the north and empties into the Baltic Sea. There are also many lakes concentrated in the northern regions of the Baltic Highlands.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Climate</heading>
          <p id="LT.GEOG.3">Lithuania’s maritime position moderates an otherwise continental-type climate. Temperatures range from an average in January of −4.9°C (23.2°F) to a July average of 17.0°C (62.6°F). The level of precipitation varies considerably from region to region. In the far west, average annual precipitation is 700&#160;mm-850&#160;mm (28&#160;ins-33&#160;ins), while in the central plain it is about 600&#160;mm.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Population</heading>
          <p id="LT.GEOG.4">According to the results of the census of January-March 2021, Lithuania’s population was 2,810,761, compared with the population of 3,043,429 recorded at the census of March 2011. According to official estimates, the total population was 2,857,279 at 1 January 2023, giving a population density of 43.8 per sq&#160;km. Of the total population at the 2021 census, 84.6% were ethnically Lithuanian, 6.5% Polish and 5.0% Russian. The official language is Lithuanian, a Baltic tongue that uses the Latin alphabet. The predominant religion in Lithuania is Christianity. Most ethnic Lithuanians are Catholics of the Latin rite, but there are small communities of Lutherans and Calvinists. Adherents of Russian Orthodoxy are almost exclusively ethnic Slavs, and there are also small numbers of Old Believers. Most of the small Tatar population retain an adherence to Islam.</p>
          <figure-group media="PRINT">
               <figure filename="/raidtec/esdata/EUROPA/EECIS/GRAPHICS/EPS/Lithuania.lay" />
          </figure-group>
          <p id="LT.GEOG.5">
      The capital of Lithuania is Vilnius, which is situated in the south-east of the country. It had a population of 586,836 at 1 January 2023, according to official estimates. Other important towns include Kaunas (with a population of 302,875), situated on the upper reaches of the Nemunas river; Klaipėda (156,745), Lithuania’s principal port; and Šiauliai (
      
      106,087).
    </p>
     </gen-section>
</country-survey>