<?xml version="1.0"?>
<country-survey id="HU.EC" id-root="hu" iso="hu" original-filename="hunecon.rtf" print-style="PGWIDTH" sect-type="economy" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>Economy</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Hungary</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Economy</alt-heading>
     <author-group>
          <primary-authors>
               <person-name>
                    <forename>Gábor</forename>
                    <surname>Scheiring</surname>
               </person-name>
       and 
      <person-name>
                    <forename>Máté</forename>
                    <surname>Veres</surname>
               </person-name>
          </primary-authors>
     </author-group>
     <p>Marie Curie Fellow at the Department of Social and Political Sciences and the Dondena Centre, Bocconi University, Italy, and Political and economic analyst based in Budapest, Hungary.</p>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Introduction</heading>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P1">When examining Hungary’s economy, it is also necessary to consider the historical context. The abrupt end of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) and the immediate introduction of the market economy in 1990 had an adverse impact on Hungary. The economy suffered what was widely referred to as a `transformational recession’. The inflation rate rose dramatically to 38.6% in 1991 and remained high over the following years (at between 20% and 26%), while by 1993 the unemployment rate had risen to 11.3%, and the country had suffered a cumulative decline in gross domestic product (GDP) of some 18%. Meanwhile, the debt-to-GDP ratio was almost 90% by 1994, the highest among the post-communist countries of Central and Eastern Europe.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P2">Consolidation was slow and painful. Austerity and privatization measures were introduced to reduce debt and raise capital for the economy. Foreign investors showed great interest in the country’s resources and bought several of the industrial powerhouses of the communist era, as well as funding their own businesses and factories. They soon became dominant in all major sectors of the Hungarian economy (banking, industry, construction, etc.). Between 1989 and 2008 cumulative foreign direct investment (FDI) in Hungary reached US&#160;$60,000m., the second highest FDI inflow per capita among the Visegrad Group countries (also comprising Slovakia, the Czech Republic—Czechia—and Poland) during that period. As a result, Hungary’s main trading partnerships shifted from the East to the West.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P3">Owing to the reforms, growth resumed in the country, at an average annual rate of around 4% between 1997 and 2006, while unemployment simultaneously declined. Hungary, together with several other Central and Eastern European countries, was admitted to the European Union (EU) in 2004. However, the adopted economic model of development, based foremost on foreign capital, soon proved to be unsustainable. The Government was forced to reduce its spending after 2006, and following the onset of the 2008 global recession two years later, austerity measures only exacerbated the impact of the crisis. By the time of the 2010 elections, the debt-to-GDP ratio had reached 80.6% and the unemployment rate had again exceeded 11%. The Government was forced to reach a loan agreement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in order to reassure international markets, which were increasingly concerned that Hungary might not be able to meet its obligations towards its lenders.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P4">Owing to the economic experiences of the 2000s, when the Government of Viktor Orbán came to power in 2010 it prioritized a reduction in the country’s debt burden and its external exposure, pledging deep-seated administrative reform.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Economic Growth</heading>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P5">During the decades preceding 2010, FDI played a crucial role in maintaining growth in Hungary’s economy. Thereafter, public investment and domestic private investment became more dominant. FDI inflows as a percentage of GDP declined from an average of 16.4% during 2000-09 to 6.8% in 2010-19. State expenditure on economic affairs rose from 5.8% of the total central government budget in 2009 to 9.5% in 2015 and, after a few years of decrease, again exceeded 9% with the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, reaching 9.2% in 2021. The EU average for the same period was 4.3%-6.3%. In 2011-15 cumulative economic growth was 6.8%, of which public investment contributed 3.9%, while over 30% of total investment was provided by the state. Despite a decline in the relative importance of FDI, external financing remained vital.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P6">However, rather than private capital, EU funds contributed the most to maintaining growth during the 2010s, EU transfers accounting for around 50% of all public investment, primarily owing to a significant increase in the effective use of EU cohesion and structural funds after 2010. According to model estimates, without transfers from the EU the Hungarian economy would have shrunk at an annual average rate of 1.8% between 2007 and 2015, instead of growing cumulatively by 4.6% (with the same fiscal path). Meanwhile, the significance of remittances also grew substantially. In 2010 transfers by Hungarians working abroad amounted to 1.6% of national GDP, rising over the next six years to an all-time high level of 3.2%, before moderating again, at around 2%, in 2021. The decline is likely to have been due to the pandemic, as by the end of 2022 Hungarians working abroad increased year-on-year by 14.9%.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P7">Before the COVID-19 pandemic, GDP rose by 5.1% in 2018 and by 4.9% in 2019, while investment volume increased by 16.7% in 2017, the second highest annual growth rate since 2000. The global economy was also on a growth trajectory in the second half of the 2010s, and Central and Eastern Europe benefited from this upturn, owing to the depth of its integration into the international economy. Hungary’s economy grew at an annual average rate of 2.8% during 2010-19, lower than the growth rates recorded in Poland (3.6%) or Slovakia (3.0%), but higher than those of most Western European countries, as well as of the Czech Republic and Slovenia.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P8">Hungary was not spared the hardships of the pandemic, suffering a recession in 2020, with an overall 4.7% decrease in GDP. However, the country was able to rebound quickly, in part due to the Government’s generous fiscal spending in advance of the April 2022 elections; real GDP grew by 7.2% in 2021. Despite the strong growth rate and an initial positive outlook due to the global recovery from the pandemic, the Russian Federation’s invasion of Ukraine, launched on 24 February 2022, made the prospect of a continued trajectory unlikely. Hungary’s real GDP failed to expand in 2022 by as much as the previous year, growing by 4.6%. In the region, only Slovakia (1.7%) and the Czech Republic (2.5%) registered lower growth rates; nevertheless, Hungary managed to surpass the EU average of 3.5%. Part of the reason for Hungary’s mixed performance in that year was its average inflation rate of 15.3%, the highest level in the country since the turmoil of the 1990s.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Foreign Investment and Exports</heading>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P9">Hungary’s growth model is somewhat less connected to the inflow of transnational capital, which has slowed significantly since 2010. The value of accumulated foreign capital has recorded a clear downward trend. In 2009 FDI accounted for 76% of GDP; by 2018 it had dropped to 57%, increasing slightly, to 61%, in 2019. Overall, however, FDI has been stagnating throughout the Eastern European region, but in Hungary it has shown a marked decline.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P10">Despite the decline in the volume of FDI, the value added of foreign enterprises in the entire business economy has remained relatively constant since 2009, amounting to 51.4% in 2019. Moreover, the export performance of the Hungarian economy remained dependent on transnational corporations. In 2019 Hungarian subsidiaries of transnational companies accounted for 80% of total exports, while they only represented only 2.5% of all private companies operating in the country and employed around one-quarter of the workforce. Transnational companies, in large part, assemble and export imported materials; the import content of exports was 43% in 2015, the fourth highest share among Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries, with only Slovakia exceeding Hungary in the region. Domestic value added in Hungary’s exports also remained constant, at 56% in 2016—the same level as in 2009 and the third lowest share in the OECD.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P11">The lack of positive change in export quality and performance is further exacerbated when the rise in allocated state subsidies in the 2010s, compared with the previous decade, is taken into account. The total value of subsidies allocated to transnational corporations in 2004-10 was US&#160;$612.2m., or 98% of subsidies, in contrast to the $13m. (2%) allocated to domestic enterprises. In 2011-18 the total value of the subsidies allocated to transnational corporations more than doubled to $1,300m. (76% of total subsidies during that period), while the value of the subsidies allocated to domestic companies grew 22 times to $309m. (24% of total subsidies).</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P12">Moreover, the export structure of transnational corporations has changed adversely. Hungary’s Economic Complexity Index, which measures the relative weight of knowledge-intensive economic sectors, stagnated during the 2010s, hovering at around 1.4 points, after a period of constant improvement during the previous decade. The declining innovation potential of the economy led to a decrease in the share of high-technology products in exports after 2010. The share of high-technology exports within manufactured exports fell from its peak of 27% in 2009 to 17% in 2014, and subsequently remained stagnant.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Economic Structure and Industrial Policy</heading>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P13">The majority of businesses (in absolute terms) in Hungary are small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), which are mainly owned by Hungarians. Thus, innovation activities undertaken by SMEs reflect the innovation activities of Hungarian companies overall. The proportion of SMEs carrying out in-house innovation decreased from 13.2% in 2009 to 10.6% in 2014. The level of innovative enterprises in the economy as a whole declined from 32.5% in 2012 to 29.0% in 2016, the fourth lowest in the EU. Hence, according to the European Commission’s European Innovation Scoreboard 2022, Hungary’s share of non-innovators with potential to innovate was twice as high (44.9%) as the EU average (19.9%). Nevertheless, after a decade of stagnation, the country has managed to improve its innovative capabilities since 2019, especially in the areas of research systems and providing linkages between innovators.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P14">The best indicator of the disintegration of the Hungarian economy—the difference between the productivity of foreign- and domestic-owned companies—has also increased slightly since 2010. Based on calculations by Eurostat, the 2.96-fold productivity gap in 2010 increased to 3.14 by 2015, meaning that foreign-owned companies generated 3.14 times more value added than those that were Hungarian-owned.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P15">In 2010 the Government identified several sectors that it deemed to be of strategic importance, initiating a marked restructuring within them. This was partly done in the hope of improving the above indicators, but with little success. The selected sectors were primarily services-based (tourism, media, telecommunications, utilities, banking), but agriculture and parts of the manufacturing industry with low levels of foreign penetration (foodstuffs, aluminium and buses) were also included. The primary objective of these measures was to rebalance the share of foreign versus domestic ownership within the country’s economy to the benefit of the latter. A broad segment of national business was provided with state assistance with the aim of gaining a controlling stake within the highlighted sectors.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P16">One of the most commonly utilized tools in the quest to `nationalize’ these segments of the economy was the introduction of surcharge taxes. Hungarian owners were often exempted from paying the same rates, or any at all, as an asset value limit was built into the system, below which the surcharge would not apply, or would apply only at a lower rate. Smaller service providers—mostly Hungarians—with fewer assets had to pay a significantly lower percentage or none at all. This provided them with a financial advantage over their transnational counterparts. The secondary, unofficial aim of these taxes was to aid the property rights actions of the Government. Punitive taxes on advertising and the announcement of a media tax in 2014 contributed to the withdrawal of international partners, making space for Hungarian investors.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P17">Despite the Government’s preference for domestic businesses, it introduced measures that were designed to attract further investment from abroad and to help the largest Hungarian businesses accumulate capital at the same time. These most notably comprised tax reductions. First, the Government eliminated the second tier of the corporate tax rate (previously 19%) and introduced a uniform rate of corporate income tax of 9%, with effect from the beginning of 2017, the lowest rate in the EU. Second, it employed a further tool to enable the largest corporations to pay much less tax by means of various forms of tax relief. The Government calculated an effective corporate tax rate of 5% for the 2019 financial year. The largest companies are able to reduce even this level further by means of intra-company transfer pricing and other corporate mechanisms. The actual rate of corporate tax paid by the 30 largest companies in Hungary on income before taxes was only 3.6%.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Fiscal and Monetary Policy</heading>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P18">Upon coming to power in 2010, Orbán’s Government indicated that one of its main economic priorities would be the `fight against national debt’. In order to achieve this objective, cuts to social spending were implemented and a mandatory public debt limit equivalent to 50% of GDP introduced. The latter implied that public debt was required to decrease each year until it was below the indicated ceiling. This objective was soon overwritten, owing to the economic crisis brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic from March 2020; public debt was allowed to rise from around 65.0% of GDP at the start of 2020 to 80.4% by the end of the year, one of the steepest increases in Europe. With the onset of the Russian aggression against Ukraine and the sudden sharp rise in global energy prices, government deficits have increased dramatically and the current account deficit as a percentage of GDP reached 8.1% in 2022, according to the IMF.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P19">Public services and social benefits were always rendered secondary by the Government and were therefore targeted by austerity measures after 2010. Public health care spending declined from 5.2% of GDP in 2009, a level already low by international standards, to 4.5% in 2019, the lowest in Central and Eastern Europe. In 2020 there was a marked increase, with 6.5% of GDP spent on health care. However, that was largely the result of questionable ventilator procurement, when twice the number projected to be necessary in a worst-case scenario during the pandemic was purchased from the People’s Republic of China. Meanwhile, spending on social protection was cut from 18.1% of GDP in 2009 to 13.6% in 2020, while education spending was reduced from 5.4% of GDP in 2009 to 4.7% in 2020.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P20">Monetary policy during the 2010s was characterized by an insistence on low interest rates, even in the context of continuous economic growth. During the same period the national currency, the forint, devalued significantly against the euro, in a reversal of its real over-valuation during the pre-2009 era. As a result of a combination of these factors, the inflation rate rose to around 5.1% in 2021. This has made the introduction of countercyclical measures very difficult amid the financial adversity brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic, and more recently the war in Ukraine.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P21">Before the COVID-19 crisis Hungarian businesses were aided by the central bank’s `funding for growth’ programme of 2013, which was later renewed for a further round in 2019. The programme allowed banks to borrow from the central bank interest-free if they then lent the money to Hungarian-owned enterprises at an interest rate of no more than 2.5%. According to the central bank, the funding for growth programme injected US&#160;$6,200m. into the Hungarian economy and raised growth by 2%-2.5% during 2013-17. At the onset of the COVID-19 crisis the central bank poured further liquidity into the economy, by establishing a loan programme for enterprises (NHP Hajrá) with a total allocation of $700m. (200,000m. forints).</p>
          <p>Due to a dramatic rise in the consumer price index, the central bank has been forced to change course, and since the second half of 2021 it has cut back most of its funding programmes, while simultaneously raising interest rates. At May 2023 Hungary’s base interest rate stood at a staggering 13%, the highest among all the EU member states, while the second highest rate was 7%, in both the Czech Republic and Romania. The forceful strategy of the central bank is understandable, in so far as high interest rates are considered to be a tool against inflation. Nevertheless, it has proved ineffective because Hungary has since November 2022 also had the highest level of inflation in the entire EU, with a rate of 25.8%, exceeding the second highest rate (of 20.1% in Latvia) by more than 5% by February 2023.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P22">
      The vulnerability of the Hungarian economy is primarily the result of its heavy reliance on Russian energy supplies. Since 2020 Hungary has been among the states most dependent on Russian oil in the world, with 44.6% of its overall consumption supplied by its eastern partner, while nearly 90% of its natural gas consumption has been based on Russian sources. 
      <!--https://iea.blob.core.windows.net/assets/9f137e48-13e4-4aab-b13a-dcc90adf7e38/Hungary2022.pdf-->
      The three most dominant sources of the country’s total final energy consumption in 2019 were oil (comprising 37%), natural gas (30%) and electricity (17%). Electricity generation is also heavily dependent on Russia, since around one-half the country’s power supply is produced by the Soviet-built Paks nuclear power plant, which receives all of its fuel from Russia.
    </p>
          <p>Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 led to record high energy prices throughout Europe and, despite the Government’s close ties with Putin’s regime (even post-war), Hungary was no exception. This caused some disquiet among government policymakers, since residential energy prices have been at the forefront of their policy priorities. Since 2013 the Government has maintained a system whereby residential electricity and natural gas prices have been fully government-mandated rather than market-based, set at a relatively low unit price for both (€0.1 per kWh and €0.3 per cu&#160;m, respectively, at current prices). There is no regard in the system for income or social status, nor is there indexation to events like inflation or other economic indicators. Therefore, residential utility prices had not changed for almost nine years. Hungarian households have enjoyed some of the lowest prices for energy consumption in Europe. As a result, by April 2022 they paid 60% less for electricity than the EU average, and 75% less for natural gas. A system where the price is capped below equilibrium cannot be maintained in the long term without a financier. The state was obliged to intervene and subsidize Hungary’s primary energy producer and provider (the MVM Group) with substantial sums. According to estimates, even before the war began, the whole residential price subsidy programme cost nearly 450,000m. forints (around €1,100m.) annually. For 2022, it is estimated—by government officials—at more than double that amount, reaching a staggering 1,000,000m. forints (around €2,500m.). As a measure to counterbalance these cost elements, the Government introduced higher, close to market level, tariffs for those who exceeded certain levels of natural gas and power consumption.</p>
          <p>From a social perspective, the general population was better prepared to face an economic crisis than in 2008. While in 2010 more than 70% of Hungarian households were unable to cover an unexpected expense, by 2018 the proportion had declined to 33%, which is still a significant figure, but does not differ greatly from those of neighbouring countries (with the exception of Austria, 21%). Between 2010 and 2019 household debt declined from 81.4% to 41.5% of net disposable income. The Government effectively eliminated foreign currency debts and helped high-income citizens to repay their outstanding debts, with the costs borne by—mostly foreign-owned—banks. The reduction of indebtedness also reduced the external financial vulnerability of the Hungarian economy, even though the financial vulnerability of lower levels of society remained unchanged.</p>
          <p>Nevertheless, the general population was still unprepared for an energy crisis, since for a decade utility prices had been low and remained unchanged, with little incentive for people to invest in energy-saving measures. As a result, nearly 80% of Hungarian residential buildings have not been appropriately insulated, while 10%-21% of the population live in energy poverty.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>The Labour Market</heading>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P23">The labour market after 2010 underwent several significant transformations. Owing to the Government’s emphasis on the need to combat debt, cuts to social protection expenditure were significant, and it fell from 16.6% of GDP in 2010 to 13.1% in 2021, the lowest level in the region. The emphasis was shifted from needs-based benefits to `workfare’-based benefits, which was a part of a broader paradigmatic shift from the welfare state to the workfare state.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P24">One of the first measures to be implemented as part of this new social reality was the reduction of the maximum period of eligibility for unemployment benefits to three months, the lowest in Europe. In addition, the value of social assistance, which was equivalent to the value of the minimum pension before 2010, was decreased to 80% of the previous level. As a consequence, the value of social assistance per person has been reduced to only some US&#160;$80 per month. However, 44% of those in need do not receive even this amount.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P25">The Government not only reduced social spending sharply, but did so in a highly unequal way, redistributing resources to high-income earners. During 2009-17 the social component of individual incomes—such as benefits, pensions and allowances—declined dramatically for the bottom income deciles, and increased considerably for the top income deciles. The real value of social income support for the bottom 30% declined by 21%, on average, between 2010 and 2017, while it increased by 18.4%, on average, for the top 30%; social income support for the top 10% increased by 30.7%, while it declined by 15.6% for the bottom 10%, in real terms. This represents a somewhat perverse redistribution of income from the bottom to the top.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P26">With regard to the employed, the most crucial change was a significant increase in the flexibility of the labour force and decline in its protection. With effect from 1 January 2019, the maximum amount of annual overtime per employee was raised from 250 hours to 400 hours, or 20% of overall basic labour time. In addition, companies were allowed to postpone overtime payments for three years, compared with one year under the previous Labour Code.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P27">Owing to the emphasis on a workfare society after 2010, during 2009-17 there was a 10 percentage point increase in the rate of labour force participation (comprising both the employed and unemployed job-seekers), according to World Bank/International Labour Organization data. The EU Labour Force Survey showed an even more significant increase, from 60% in 2009 to 75% in 2019, moving Hungary from the bottom of the range to the middle in the region. According to the Labour Force Survey of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, the total number of employees increased by 720,000, from 3.7m. in the fourth quarter of 2009 to 4.4m. in the fourth quarter of 2019, despite the working age population (15-64 years) declining by 440,000, from 6.8m. to 6.3m. over the same period.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P28">The rise in the workforce was made possible by a number of measures that the Orbán Government introduced. The retirement age was gradually increased, while early retirement was eliminated and invalidity pensions were significantly cut back. The number of young people aged 15-24 years studying full time also declined significantly, as the Government reduced the school-leaving age and tertiary school enrolment.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P29">Moreover, the public works programme was reshaped and placed at the centre of the workfare state scheme. Under the current system, the unemployed are provided with unemployment benefits for a period of three months, at the end of which—should they fail to find a job—they are offered a place within the public works programme for a gross monthly salary of €232-€334, depending on their level of education. In 2010 the number of people employed in the public works scheme was 70,000, which increased to more than 200,000 by 2016. The public works programme had the most significant impact on the employment rate of people with the lowest level of education. The employment rate for people who had completed primary education increased from 36% to 54% between 2010 and 2017, but this rise of 18 percentage points was expected to have been nearly four percentage points lower without the programme. The public works programme has been shrinking since 2017, as experts have long questioned the long-term effectiveness of the public works programme in its current form. Only 13% of the people participating in the public works scheme entered the primary labour market six months after their public employment ended, a rate that has been gradually decreasing since 2011.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P30">During the 2010s there was also very significant outward migration, with young people, in particular, leaving the country in far higher numbers than ever before. The estimated number of people working abroad totalled 600,000 in 2017, at least 480,000 of whom had left Hungary during 2010-20. As a result of these factors, the unemployment rate declined considerably. The fall in youth unemployment was particularly significant, from 26.5% in 2009 to 10.5% in 2017. Hungary began to experience a growing labour market shortage. In 2017 enterprises reported 70,000 unfilled jobs, 23% more than in the previous year. During the 2017-19 global economic boom, the increasing labour shortage improved workers’ individual bargaining positions, which led to significant wage growth. It should be noted, however, that Hungary’s performance in this regard was the worst among OECD countries in the region.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P31">The minimum wage rose significantly during the 2010s, compared with previous years, by an annual average of 8.6% during 2017-21. This development is undoubtedly positive; however, considered in a broader context, it is not as spectacular an improvement as in the case of employment. Between 2010 and 2016 gross real wages declined or stagnated; they started to grow only after 2016, so real wages in 2018 were 13.1% higher than in 2010. This increase is significant—and is likely to have continued in 2020—but it is not exceptional compared with other countries in the region. Gross real wages increased by 23.1% in Poland, by 17.5% in the Czech Republic and by 13.4% in Slovakia during 2010-18; i.e. all other Visegrad Group countries experienced higher gross real wage growth than Hungary.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P32">Despite these increases, 70% of Hungarians earn far below the average wage, with the median wage being 33% below the average wage among full-time employees in 2018. In the lowest income decile, per-head gross real income (wages and benefits) grew by 2.4% during 2010-17, and by 28.6% in the top income decile. In other words, the 1m. lowest-earning Hungarians experienced almost no increase in real income during that period.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P33">In addition, it must be emphasized that the transformation of the personal income tax system from a progressive one to a regime based on a flat rate also contributed to income inequality. In 2011 the Government introduced a flat rate of personal income tax of 16%, which was reduced to 15% in 2015. The new flat rate tax was estimated to cost around 500,000m. forints (US&#160;$1,750m.) annually, which is equivalent to a 40% decline in personal income tax revenue when compared with the previous tax regime. In conjunction with the reduction in the top rate of tax, the Government increased taxation at the bottom of the income scale by eliminating the tax exemption for low-income workers. Those benefiting from the new personal income tax system are the top 20% of income earners, whereas the majority of the remaining 80% have been adversely affected.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P34">In order to counterbalance the losses suffered by the state budget as a result of the flat income tax rate, the top rate of value-added tax (VAT) was increased to 27%, the highest rate among the EU member states. The combination of these measures has contributed to the most significant rise in inequality within the EU, according to a country report of the European Commission. The average income of the richest 20% of the population in 2018 was 4.4 times higher than that of the bottom 20%, compared with 3.6 times higher in 2008. The ratio remained below the EU average (5.17), but the increase has been one of the highest in the EU. The number of people in severe poverty earning less than 40% of the median wage also grew dramatically, from 197,000 persons (2% of the population) in 2010 to 478,000 persons (5%) in 2018.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P35">
      In response to the COVID-19 crisis the Government created an `economic protection plan’. Measures included the introduction of a very modest form of the Austrian 
      <i>Kurzarbeit</i>
       system (a government-mandated wage supplement scheme for affected businesses), a loan repayment moratorium, tax benefits for the most severely affected employees and businesses and several loan programmes for firms. Neither the COVID-19 crisis nor the energy crisis of 2022 prompted any changes in the Government’s approach to labour, as it continued to insist on its philosophy of a workfare society and maintained all of its labour legislation, including the three-month limit on unemployment benefits. Nevertheless, the labour supply is projected to rise, due to the recently introduced income tax exemption for workers below the age of 25, and the arrival of people fleeing from Ukraine on the labour market. The unemployment rate was 3.6% at the end of 2022, a decline compared with the rate of 4.1% recorded at the end of 2021. Only Poland recorded a lower rate in the region for the end of 2022 (of 2.9%).
    </p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>The Automotive and Pharmaceutical Industries</heading>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P36">In terms of their contribution to gross national output, the automotive and pharmaceutical industries represent among the most critical components of the Hungarian economy. They are not only significant from the perspective of employment and their impact on the country’s GDP, but also because of their contribution to research and development (R&amp;D) and thereby to the value-added component of the economy. Moreover, they are also representative of the transformations that have taken place in Hungary’s economy since 1990.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P37">The pharmaceutical industry has played a dominant factor within the Hungarian economy for more than a century. The first domestic pharmacy producers had already appeared in the country by the end of the 19th century. After the Second World War, however, the industry collapsed as a result of the mass nationalization conducted by the communist leadership. Pharmaceutical producers increasingly gained independence from the 1980s and were able to export their commodities on their own terms. With the dissolution of the communist bloc from 1989 and of its dominant power, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR), in 1991, and the consequent breakdown of the trading routes to the East, Hungarian pharmaceutical companies were unable to withstand the financial shock that followed. In the absence of state support or a targeted industrial policy, most of the dominant domestic producers were privatized and acquired by Western European or Israeli firms. Their takeover was part of a larger wave of privatization that was taking place at the time in the region. By 2010 most major pharmaceutical companies of Eastern Europe were owned by their Western counterparts.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P38">Despite these changes, the pharmaceutical industry in Hungary was able to remain one of the most dominant sectors. The producer segment of the industry—now dominated by Western ownership—provides employment for 23,000 people directly, and the rest (primarily commercial) for a further 15,000 indirectly. In terms of privately financed R&amp;D, the sector outspends almost all other industries in the country. In 2018 alone €217m. were invested in the sector for research purposes by corporations. This represented nearly 20% of total (private and public) R&amp;D financing. In 2020 its gross value added reached US&#160;$1,541m. In terms of export performance, the sector has been successful in targeting foreign markets and currently more than 80% of pharmaceuticals produced in Hungary are sold internationally. In 2021 the sector’s total export value amounted to around €2,700m. The success of the industry is perhaps best measured by its overall contribution to GDP, which was around 6% in 2018. Nevertheless, during the pandemic inflation and value chain constraints all affected the industry negatively. In addition, the state increasingly uses it as a source of income, and at the end of 2022 it introduced a surcharge tax without consulting representatives of the industry beforehand.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P39">
      In comparison with the pharmaceutical industry, the automotive industry has a shorter and less distinguished history in Hungary. Nevertheless, it has gained a similar degree of significance. The industry’s first dominant player was created during the communist era when the state established the bus producer Ikarus in 1949. Ikarus soon came to dominate bus sales in the USSR, and its production rate during the 1970s and 1980s was only second to that of German automobile manufacturer Mercedes-Benz. The change of 
      
      regime in 1990 brought about the collapse of the country’s automotive industry similar to that of the pharmaceutical sector. After a few years of struggle, in 1999 Ikarus was bought by a French company and in 2000 it was closed down.
    </p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P40">Here, however, the background of the automotive sector deviates from that of the pharmaceutical industry. Instead of building on an already relatively successful infrastructure base to expand their markets, foreign corporations reconstructed the automotive industry completely through extensive `greenfield’ investments to build assembly lines of their own. The Hungarian state played an instrumental role in this process through tax incentives, state aid and deregulation. All the major producers and exporters in the sector are now subsidiaries of Western European (primarily German) companies. Domestic producers act as suppliers to the industry, mainly by producing car parts.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P41">
      By 2019 the automotive industry employed some 176,000 people, equivalent to around 3% of the total active workforce. Of privately financed R&amp;D spending, the industry accounted for the second largest share after the pharmaceutical industry. In value terms, this represented €205m. in 2018. The two industries together represent nearly 40% of all R&amp;D spending in Hungary. With regards to exports, the automotive industry contributes 21% of the total. This is partly owing to the dominance of foreign ownership within the sector, as 93% of all cars are transported either to the headquarters of the parent companies or to other external markets. The overall significance of the industry to the Hungarian economy is demonstrated by its contribution to GDP: 
      <!--can’t find source for this-->
      by 2023 the sector contributed around 6% of national output. This represented growth of about 1% compared with 2019, despite a decline in global car sales.
    </p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Conclusion</heading>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P42">The results of Hungary’s transformation from a state-run economy into a market-based model are mixed at best. On the positive side, except in times of global recession, the country’s economy was able to expand continuously over the past 30+ years, while domestic businesses integrated successfully into the global economy. Hungary was able to establish strong commercial ties with the major economies of the world, and today it is represented in some of the most important economic organizations, such as the EU and the OECD.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P43">On the negative side, however, the model along which it carried out its integration had severe limitations. Economic growth, above all, has been dependent on foreign capital and financial support. This has shaped the country’s social and economic policy, leading to exploitative labour relations, growing inequality and precarity.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P44">The post-2010 illiberal state’s economic strategy was a response to the crisis of Hungary’s post-1990 liberal dependent economic model. The misgovernance of dependent development resulted in a severe economic dualism between 1990 and 2010, in which productive technology-intensive transnational corporations generated the bulk of export revenue, while labour-intensive domestic companies lacked access to high-value-added markets. The overwhelming majority of Hungarians experienced Hungary’s reintegration into the global economy between 1989 and 2009 as social turmoil.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P45">The economic policies implemented by the Orbán Government after 2010 aimed to boost the creation of wealth and capital accumulation targeting the upper middle class, national capital and transnational corporations. This strategy allowed an increase in precarious employment and reduced the financial vulnerability of families and the overall economy. However, these policies failed to improve the productivity of domestic businesses and undermined long-term development potential. The polarizing socioeconomic strategy served to exacerbate inequalities in income and wealth. The long-term viability of the post-2010 economic model requires authoritarian solutions.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARY.ECONOMY.P46">In conclusion, the rise of illiberalism in Hungary is tightly interwoven with the vagaries of the country’s economic model. Only with another transformation of the economic model, based on the ideals of equity, participation and quality employment, will Hungary be able to escape the current developmental impasse.</p>
     </gen-section>
</country-survey>