<?xml version="1.0"?>
<country-survey id="HU.GE" id-root="hu" iso="hu" original-filename="hungeog.rtf" print-style="PGWIDTH" sect-type="geography" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <country-head>Hungary</country-head>
     <heading>Geography</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Hungary</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Geography</alt-heading>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Physical Features</heading>
          <p id="HU.GEOG.1">Hungary is a landlocked country in Central Europe. It is bordered by Austria to the west, Slovakia to the north and has a short border with Ukraine in the north-east. Romania lies to the east and Hungary’s southern border is with Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia (the province of Vojvodina). Hungary has a total area of 93,024 sq&#160;km (35,908 sq&#160;miles); its territory was much reduced following the dissolution of the Habsburg Empire in the early 20th century.</p>
          <p id="HU.GEOG.2">The River Danube (Duna) forms Hungary’s north-western border with Slovakia and then flows south through Budapest, bisecting the country, which is mostly low-lying and much of it prone to flooding. East of the Danube is the Pannonian or Great Hungarian Plain (Nagyalföld), which is also drained by the Tisza, the longest tributary of the Danube. To the west of the Danube the country is hillier, with a spur of the Alps traversing the region from the south-west to the north-east (the Bakony, Vertes and Philis ranges). South-east of these mountains lie Lake Balaton, the largest lake in Central Europe, and the downlands of Transdanubia (Dunántúl). In the north-west of Hungary, between the mountains and the Danube, are the Little Hungarian Plains (Kisalföld). Only some 2% of the total land area of the country is over 400&#160;m, the highest mountain being Kékestetö, at 1,014 m (3,327 ft), in the Mátra range. The Mátra Mountains lie east of the Danube, along Hungary’s northern border, and are foothills of the Carpathian Mountains.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Climate</heading>
          <p id="HU.GEOG.3">Hungary has a continental climate, with hot summers and cold winters. In winter the Danube can freeze over for long periods and, in settled weather, fog is frequent. The mean temperatures in Budapest are a maximum of 22°C (71°F) in July and a minimum of −1°C (30°F) in January. Most rainfall occurs in the spring and early summer, when there are often heavy downpours; in Budapest the average annual rainfall is 610&#160;mm. There is little regional variation in the weather.</p>
          <figure-group media="PRINT">
               <figure filename="/raidtec/esdata/EUROPA/EECIS/GRAPHICS/EPS/Hungary.lay" />
          </figure-group>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Population</heading>
          <p id="HU.GEOG.4">
      The Hungarians (Magyars) are a Turkic or Finno-Ugrian people who settled on the Hungarian plains from the late ninth century 
      <sc>ce</sc>
      . There are still large numbers of ethnic Hungarians outside the borders of the modern state, particularly in areas that once formed part of the old kingdom, such as north-west Romania (Transylvania), southern Slovakia and Vojvodina (Serbia). In 1998 official figures put the number of ethnic Hungarians at 89.9% of the total population, Roma (Gypsies) at 4%, Germans at over 2% of the population, Serbs at 2%, Slovaks at 0.8% and Romanians at about 0.7%. The official language is Hungarian (Magyar), but the various minority ethnic groups also speak their own languages. The predominant religion is Christianity, the largest denomination being the Roman Catholic Church (an estimated 61% of the population), followed by Calvinism (20%) and Lutheranism (5%). There are also small groups of Eastern Orthodox Christians, Jews and Muslims.
    </p>
          <p>The total resident population, according to preliminary results of the census of 1 October 2022, was 9,604,000. At 1 January 2023 the population, according to official estimates, numbered 9,678,000, and the population density was 104.0 per sq&#160;km.</p>
          <p id="HU.GEOG.5">
      The capital of Hungary is Budapest, in the north of the country. The city is located on the Danube, comprising the ancient capital of Buda on the hillier western bank and the commercial centre of Pest on the eastern bank. It had a resident population of 1,706,851, according to official estimates, at 1 January 2022. Other major towns include Debrecen (with an estimated population of 199,725), Szeged (157,372) and Miskolc (147,480
      
      ).
    </p>
     </gen-section>
</country-survey>