<?xml version="1.0"?>
<country-survey id="HU.HI" id-root="hu" iso="hu" original-filename="hunhist.rtf" print-style="PGWIDTH" sect-type="history" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>History</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Hungary</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">History</alt-heading>
     <author-group>
          <primary-authors>
               <person-name>
                    <forename>Tobias</forename>
                    <surname>Spöri</surname>
               </person-name>
          </primary-authors>
     </author-group>
     <p>Researcher, Department of Political Science, University of Vienna, Austria</p>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Introduction</heading>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P1">The `round table’ agreement of 18 September 1989 and the dissolution of the Magyar Szocialista Munkáspárt (MSzMP—Hungarian Socialist Workers’ Party), which was reconstituted as the Magyar Szocialista Párt (MSzP—Hungarian Socialist Party) on 7 October, marked the starting point of the transition to liberal democracy in Hungary. The agreement, resulting from talks between the MSzMP, opposition groups and civil society organizations, laid out the basis for the essential pillars of democracy and a market economy, such as a rule of law, a multi-party system and an electoral system. The foundation of the Third Hungarian Republic in 1989 brought an end to the communist period in Hungary, which had commenced in the late 1940s, in the aftermath of the Second World War. Compared with other Central and Eastern European countries, the transition of Hungary from a one-party system and planned economy to democratic pluralism and market economy was perceived relatively positively by political observers, portraying the country as one of the democratic frontrunners in post-communist Europe. One of the principal figures of the transition phase around 1989 was Viktor Orbán, who delivered a famous speech on 16 June as a leader of student protests, demanding that Soviet troops leave the country.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Democratic Transformation</heading>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P3">The first democratic elections in Hungary after the end of communism were held on 25 March and 8 April 1990, marking one of the first milestones of the country’s path to democracy. The Magyar Demokrata Fórum (MDF—Hungarian Democratic Forum), which had been founded in 1987, received 164 of the 386 seats in the newly established Országgyülés (National Assembly). The leader of the MDF, József Antall, became the country’s first post-communist Prime Minister, heading a coalition Government comprising the MDF, the Kereszténydemokrata Néppárt (KDNP—Christian Democratic People's Party), with 21 seats, and the Független Kisgazda, Földmunkás és Polgári Párt (FKgP—Independent Smallholders, Agrarian Workers and Civic Party), with 44 seats. A total of 10 parties entered the National Assembly. The most important opposition parties were the Szabad Demokraták Szövetsége—a Magyar Liberális Párt (SzDSz—Alliance of Free Democrats—Hungarian Liberal Party), with 92 seats, the successor party of the MSzMP, the MSzP, with 33 seats, and Fidesz—Magyar Polgári Szövetség (Fidesz—Federation of Young Democrats—Hungarian Civic Alliance), with 21 seats. Compared with other Central and Eastern European countries, the participation rate in the elections was relatively low, at 65.1%.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P4">As Hungary opted for a swift transition to a market economy, characterized by rapid privatization, it quickly entered a severe economic recession. The electorate reacted against Antall’s policies in the parliamentary elections in May 1994, and the MSzP returned to power again, led by Gyula Horn. Although the MSzP could have governed alone, after securing 209 of the 386 seats, it formed a coalition with the SzDSz, which was placed second in the elections, with 69 seats, thereby gaining a two-thirds’ majority. Hungary’s mixed electoral system created a strong distorting effect between votes cast and seats in the legislature. The MDF, with 38 seats, the FKgP (26 seats), Fidesz (20 seats) and the KDNP (22 seats) remained in opposition. The electoral participation rate increased slightly to 68.9%.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P5">The third parliamentary elections after communism, held in May 1998, resulted in the third change of government. Although the MSzP received the highest number of party list votes in the elections (32.9%), taking 134 of the total 386 seats, the liberal-conservative Fidesz (29.5%) won more seats overall, with 148. Fidesz had already been moving increasingly to the right of the political spectrum since 1994. Orbán, the party’s leader since 1993, formed a coalition with the FKgP (48 seats) and the MDF (17 seats). In addition to the socialist MSzP and the liberal SzDSz (24 seats), the extreme right-wing Magyar Igazság és Élet Pártja (MIÉP—Hungarian Justice and Life Party) entered the National Assembly for the first time as an opposition party (with 14 seats). The electoral turnout dropped to 56.3%. Hungary joined the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) in 1999.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P6">Fidesz remained the largest parliamentary party after elections in April 2002, at which it won 188 of the 386 seats, in an electoral alliance with the MDF. However, the incumbent Government was replaced by a coalition comprising the MSzP (178 seats) and the SzDSz (19 seats), led by a non-partisan, Péter Medgyessy. Following the elections, the MDF joined Fidesz in opposition. The FKgP failed to reach the threshold and lost its legislative representation. The participation rate dropped again, to 50.5%.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P7">The four legislative periods after 1989 brought many changes to the country. At a referendum held on 12 April 2003, Hungary’s entry into the European Union (EU) was approved by 83.8% of voters (with a turnout of only 45.6%), and it joined the EU on 1 May 2004, together with nine other countries. In the first European Parliament elections to be held in Hungary, on 13 June, Fidesz won 47.4% of the votes and obtained 12 of Hungary’s 24 members of the European Parliament. The MSzP was second, with nine seats, the SzDSz third, with two, and the MDF fourth, with one. Only 38.5% of Hungary’s electorate voted. Prime Minister Medgyessy resigned in August, and was replaced by Ferenc Gyurcsány, of the MSzP.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P8">Gyurcsány led his coalition to victory in the parliamentary elections in April 2006, the MSzP winning 186 of the 386 seats, the SzDSz 18 seats (with a further six seats in joint lists), and a small regional party, Somogyért (Association for Somogy), one seat. A Fidesz-KDNP alliance (164 seats) and the MDF (11 seats) remained in opposition. Voter turnout increased to 67.8%. Soon afterwards, however, the MSzP-led Government plunged into a severe crisis following the disclosure of the so-called `Őszöd speech’ in which Prime Minister Gyurcsány, in a confidential speech made at a MSzP congress, admitted that his party had deceived voters over the country’s economic situation during the electoral campaign. The speech was leaked in September, precipitating mass protests and a nationwide political crisis. The ensuing collapse in support for the MSzP contributed to the victory of Fidesz in the 2010 parliamentary elections.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P9">The political turbulence after the MSzP scandal also had an impact on Hungary’s second European Parliament elections, which took place on 7 June 2009. The Fidesz-KDNP alliance won 55.4% of the votes cast and 14 of 22 seats. The MSzP was second, but only received 17.4% of the votes and four seats, followed by the extreme right-wing Jobbik Magyarországért Mozgalom (Jobbik—Movement for a Better Hungary), with 14.8% and three seats, and the MDF, with 5.3% and one seat. The electoral turnout of 36.3% represented a slight decrease compared with 2004.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section id="HU.14690925671" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Viktor Orbán Returns to Power</heading>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P10">The legislative elections in April 2010 brought major changes to the political scene in Hungary. The Fidesz-KDNP alliance won 263 of the 386 seats in an overwhelming victory, providing Orbán with a two-thirds’ majority. The MSzP experienced heavy losses, and won only 59 seats. Furthermore, two new parties entered parliament: Jobbik, with 47 seats, and the environmentalist Lehet Más a Politika! (LMP—Politics Can Be Different!), with 16 seats. The electoral turnout, at 64.4%, dropped slightly, compared with the 2006 elections. Statements by politicians from Fidesz and, particularly, Jobbik during the electoral campaign showed an increasingly nationalistic tone, accompanied by anti-Semitic, homophobic and racist rhetoric.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P11">One of the first major political steps by the Orbán Government was to introduce a `media law package’ in 2010, and constitutional reforms, which entered into force on 1 January 2012. The media legislation increased state regulation of the media and allowed for political interference, and was criticized strongly both domestically and internationally. The preamble of new Constitution introduced references to the Holy Crown, Christianity and traditional family values, while the document also increased the range of laws that required a two-thirds’ majority for approval, restricting future, potentially weaker governments. By the end of 2013 the new Constitution had already been amended five times.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P12">The newly elected Government succeeded in installing trusted cadres or allies in important non-elected positions, such as in the judiciary or the Central Bank, contributing to the increasing concentration of political power in the hands of Prime Minister Orbán. Moreover, the electoral reforms of 2011 and 2012 had a great impact on future elections, as they redrew constituency borders, reduced the number of parliamentary seats from 386 to 199, converted the previous two-round electoral system to a single round, and made the voter registration process more difficult.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P13">Parliamentary elections on 6 April 2014 were the first to take place under the amended electoral law. The incumbent Government managed to preserve its two-thirds’ `supermajority’, as the Fidesz-KDNP alliance won 133 of the 199 seats. The opposition of the left political spectrum formed a political alliance, Összefogás (Unity), comprising five parties: the MSzP, the newly established, social-liberal Együtt 2014 (Together 2014—later just Együtt), the Demokratikus Koalíció (DK—Democratic Coalition—a socialist party created by Gyurcsány after his split from the MSzP in 2011), Párbeszéd Magyarországért (PM—Dialogue for Hungary—a breakaway faction from the LMP), and the Magyar Liberális Párt (MLP—Hungarian Liberal Party—formed from the SzDSz). Összefogás won only 38 seats (the MSzP 29, the DK four, Együtt three, the PM one, and the MLP one). Jobbik received 23 seats, whereas the LMP won five seats. The electoral turnout decreased again, to 61.7%.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P14">Fidesz received 51.5% of the votes cast in the European Parliament elections held on 25 May 2014, securing 12 of the 21 allocated seats. Jobbik was second, with 14.7% and three seats, while the MSzP (10.9%) and the DK (9.8%) won two seats each, and a coalition of Együtt 2014 and the PM (7.3%) obtained one seat, as did the LMP (5.0%). Voter turnout decreased to 29.0%.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P15">On 26 July 2014, at the Bálványos Summer Open University and Student Camp, in Romania, Prime Minister Orbán gave an important speech in which he outlined his preferred future path for Hungary as an `illiberal state’, describing the `Western’ model of liberal democracy as outdated and stating that global competition between nation states required a more efficient approach to governing. Amid mass immigration to Europe, particularly from Islamic countries, in 2015, Orbán increasingly changed his rhetoric and started to speak of `Christian democracy’ instead of the `illiberal state’. For instance, in his speech at the Bálványos Summer Open University and Student Camp in July 2017, he emphasized that his Government was `the most Christian democratic government’ in Europe, seeking to portray himself as the leader to end the `de-Christianization of Europe’.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P16">In October 2014 the Government announced a plan to impose a tax on internet usage, which prompted anti-Government protests expressing not only dissatisfaction with that specific policy but also growing frustration with corruption and authoritarian tendencies. In view of the large-scale protests, the Government abandoned the law in the proposed form. The environment for civil society activities, particularly non-governmental organizations (NGOs), continued to become more hostile, as representatives of the Government, including Prime Minister Orbán, labelled figures of civil society `paid political activists’, employing a similar stance to the President of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin. The Orbán Government’s political ties to Russia continued to improve, after the two countries had in January signed a €12,000m. agreement for Russian nuclear agency Rosatom to expand the Paks Nuclear Power Plant in central Hungary.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Anti-Immigration Policy and Rhetoric</heading>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P17">A dramatic increase in refugees and migrants from non-EU countries (particularly the Syrian Arab Republic) entering Europe during the second half of 2015 dominated politics in that year. According to the EU statistical agency (Eurostat), the number of non-EU asylum seekers (of first-time applicants) in Hungary was the second highest in the EU, with some 174,000. Most of the migrants took the so-called `Balkan route’, so that Hungary was the first EU member state (apart from Greece) on the route, and hence received the exceptionally high number of arrivals. The Fidesz-KDNP coalition Government reacted to the high number of applications with a fierce anti-immigration campaign. </p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P18">In early 2015, the Government experienced two defeats in by-elections, thus losing its two-thirds’ majority in the National Assembly. In February independent candidate Zoltán Kész, a former member of Fidesz, won a by-election in Veszprém. Two months later, Lajos Rig, the candidate of Jobbik, defeated the candidate nominated by Fidesz in a by-election in Tapolca. Political observers stated after the two by-elections that voters in Hungary had adapted their behaviour to the new electoral system, as they started to support the opposition candidate who appeared most able to challenge Fidesz.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P19">In addition, the Government’s decision to increase the tax on advertisements in early 2015 precipitated a major dispute between Orbán and his former supporter and oligarch, Lajos Simicska. Media outlets owned by Simicska ended their pro-Government reporting, causing further problems for the ruling coalition. As a result, the Government restructured state television, and associates of Orbán took over private media outlets, which then increasingly reported in favour of the Government.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P20">The loss of the supermajority in the National Assembly had, however, little impact on the Government’s capability to adopt legislation, as non-elected institutions, such as the Constitutional Court, failed to fulfil their intended role to check the executive effectively. This became apparent, for instance, regarding the newly introduced state of emergency legislation in August 2015, which was intended to address the migration crisis. After the Government rejected Jobbik’s offer of support, it then passed a legal amendment, which caused constitutional concerns. The emergency measures, adopted in September, accorded additional powers to the police, under which the remaining areas along Hungary’s border with Serbia that migrants had used to enter the country were sealed. In June Hungary had decided to construct a fence along this border. After the completion of the fence in September, the official number of migrants crossing the border declined significantly.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P21">In 2016 the number of first-time asylum seekers in Hungary was reduced to around 30,000, compared with nearly 750,000 in Germany, 123,000 in Italy and 84,000 in France. The introduction of strict measures to prevent illicit migration sharply boosted the popularity of the Government, despite details of further corruption scandals emerging, and helped Orbán to regain the dominant role in Hungarian politics. Political spectators observed that Fidesz had effectively adopted the xenophobic stance regarding migration policy previously associated with Jobbik, thus repositioning itself politically. Although a large majority in the National Assembly proposed a very critical stance towards immigration, Hungarian civil society was very active in supporting refugees at that time.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P22">At the EU level, the Hungarian Government had already expressed criticism about the organization’s migration policy in May 2014 when the European Commission decided to relocate 40,000 refugees between member countries. Hungary then voted against a further relocation of refugees, together with Romania, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, in September 2015.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P24">In February 2016 Orbán announced that a referendum on Hungarian participation in the EU plan for mandatory resettlement quotas of refugees would be held, posing the question: `Do you want to allow the European Union to mandate the resettlement of non-Hungarian citizens to Hungary without the approval of the National Assembly?’. The announcement of the referendum received heavy criticism, both domestically and internationally, on the grounds that the wording was biased and even unconstitutional, as the issue was subject to EU, rather than national, legislation. None the less, the Constitutional Court accepted the initiative. The referendum took place on 2 October, but voter turnout failed to reach the 50% threshold required for validation, although the Government had invested huge funds of some 13,000m. forint in its referendum campaign. Some 44% of eligible voters participated in the referendum and around 98% of votes cast supported the Government in rejecting the proposal. Many citizens followed a call by opposition parties to boycott the referendum. Despite the failure of the referendum, the Government, submitted a constitutional amendment in the National Assembly for the inclusion of a provision that a `foreign population cannot be settled in Hungary’. The motion failed, as the opposition, including Jobbik, refused to support it. The Constitutional Court, however, declared in November that EU law should not violate the national sovereignty of its members, in accordance with the Government’s initial proposal.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P25">
      Meanwhile, the growth in authoritarian and corrupt tendencies was evident. One of the largest newspapers of the country, the left-leaning 
      <i>Népszabadság</i>
      , was closed by its owner in October 2016. Both its owner and the Government argued that the decision was made for purely economic reasons, while the opposition and critical journalists claimed that the closure was politically motivated; notably, the publication did not benefit from the inclusion of public advertisements by the political authorities, unlike many pro-Government media outlets.
    </p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P26">The Government also continued to apply pressure to NGOs, especially those that were active in supporting refugees and/or were supported by Hungarian-US investor and philanthropist George Soros. Fidesz Vice-Chairman Szilard Németh proposed, for example, that NGOs receiving financial support from Soros’s Open Society Foundations (OSF) be examined in a national security screening. Meanwhile, corruption emerged as a salient issue, particularly regarding a funding scandal involving the Hungarian Central Bank. The bank and its Governor, György Matolcsy, had been accused of directing 260,000m. forint towards foundations that the bank had itself created since 2013. Although it was revealed that businessmen close to Matolcsy had benefited from the profits of the foundations, which did not appear in the bank’s annual reports, Matolcsy did not suffer any political consequences.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P28">The Government continued with its anti-immigration policies in 2017; on 7 March the National Assembly passed a law that required almost all asylum seekers to stay in delimited `transit zones’. Furthermore, two laws were adopted in April and June, respectively, restricting academic freedom and the work of NGOs. The so-called `Lex CEU’, a modification of the Higher Education Act of 2011, was approved by the National Assembly on 4 April, causing national and international criticism, and protests. The law changed the registration requirements for Hungarian universities with foreign accreditation, which in practice would affect only the Central European University (CEU), established by Soros in 1991, the operations of which within Hungary were thereby indirectly brought to an end.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P29">The so-called `NGO law’ was approved by the National Assembly on 13 June 2017. This legislation required any NGO that received funding of more than 7.2m. forint from abroad to register with the courts as a `foreign-funded NGO’, under regulations similar to existing laws in Russia and Israel. These NGOs were also obliged to put the designation on their websites, and all their communications were listed on an official website. NGOs that failed to comply could be fined or dissolved, and their representatives held accountable for any violation of the law. In addition, representatives of the Government described certain NGOs, particularly those involved in monitoring government actions, as constituting a `national security threat’. The European Commission triggered infringement procedures against Hungary in reaction to the Lex CEU on 13 July and to the NGO law on 4 October. (In June 2020 the European Court of Justice ruled that the 2017 legislation restricting the funding of NGOs was in violation of EU law.)</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P30">Meanwhile, the Government began large-scale media campaigns to `Stop Brussels’ in April 2017 and against what it termed the `Soros Plan’ in September. Both campaigns were launched with the stated intention of protecting Hungary from illegal immigration—alleged to be the main goal of the `Soros Plan’. The campaign against Soros used clearly anti-Semitic imagery and claimed that a `fifth column’ of so-called `Soros agents’ were undermining national security.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P31">Despite the overall political power of the governing coalition, in February 2017 a petition brought by a small civil society organization, the Momentum Mozgalom (Momentum—Momentum Movement), was successful in demanding that Budapest withdraw its application to host the Summer Olympic Games in 2024. Most opposition parties, such as the MSzP, the DK, the LMP and Együtt, supported the campaign, which managed to collect some 250,000 signatures within a short period of time, thus successfully forcing the abandonment of the bid.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section id="HU.14337704131" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>The Parliamentary Elections of 2018</heading>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P32">The incumbent Government again managed to secure a two-thirds’ majority of seats in elections to the National Assembly on 8 April 2018. Prior to the elections, Fidesz had lost a local election in February to the post of mayor of the southern town of Hódmezővásárhely, where independent candidate Péter Márki-Zay was placed first, with some 57% of the votes. That result encouraged opposition parties aiming to challenge the Government in the forthcoming elections, as many opposition parties supported Márki-Zay. Moreover, thousands of students and pupils protested in front of the National Assembly in January, demanding reform of the education system and a halt to the emigration of, in particular, well-educated young Hungarians. A report by the EU’s European Anti-Fraud Office had accused Orbán’s son-in-law and one of Hungary’s most successful businessmen, István Tiborcz, of involvement in a corruption scheme related to domestic and EU funds; an investigation by the Hungarian authorities was closed in August 2018, prompting EU officials to express further doubt about the rule of law in Hungary.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P33">The Government’s adoption of generous social policies helped to maintain its popularity: for instance, pensioners received a 10,000 forint voucher at the end of 2017, while the Government announced that it would cover parts of the population’s heating bills a few weeks before the elections. Apart from the focus on social policy, the Government’s campaign created a narrative interweaving the influence of the `bureaucrats from Brussels’ (i.e. the central EU institutions), the alleged `Soros Plan’ and the perceived threat of Hungary being stormed by migrants. Furthermore, pro-Government media outlets published several `blacklists’ of NGO representatives, artists, scientists and journalists who were alleged to be part of the `Soros network’. The opposition parties attempted partially to unite their supporters by proposing to nominate only one opposition candidate in each constituency, but generally remained fragmented, as this strategy would require left-leaning parties to co-operate with Jobbik.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P34">As in 2014, the Fidesz-KDNP alliance was placed first in the elections of April 2018, with 49.3% of the votes cast on a party list basis and 133 of the total of 199 seats. Jobbik received 19.1% of party list votes and 26 seats, while a coalition between the MSzP and the PM obtained 11.9% and 20 seats, the DK 5.4% and nine seats, the LMP 7.1% and eight seats, and Együtt and a German minority party, the Magyarországi Németek Országos Önkormányzata (National Authority of Germans—Hungary), less than 1% and one seat each (with an independent candidate receiving the remaining seat). The electoral participation rate rose to 68.1%. </p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P35">One month after the elections, the OSF decided to close its office in Budapest and transfer its operations to Berlin, Germany. The main reason for the OSF’s withdrawal from Hungary was the so-called Stop Soros laws, which the National Assembly subsequently adopted on 13 June 2018. The vaguely formulated laws obliged human rights NGOs, particularly those dealing with refugees, to apply for a licence from the Ministry of the Interior to ascertain that they `meant no threat to national security’. In addition, the Government introduced a 25% tax on the foreign funding of NGOs considered to support immigration, the proceeds of which were supposed to be invested directly in border control measures. The laws also made it more difficult to monitor the observance of human rights and to assist refugees, as a new category of crime—of `promoting and supporting illegal migration’—was created.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P36">On 12 September 2018 the European Parliament voted to trigger sanctions procedures, in accordance with Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union, against the Hungarian Government on the grounds that it was undermining democracy, with particular regard to the rule of law, the media and NGOs. It was the first time that the European Parliament had passed such a motion, while the European Commission had triggered proceedings under Article 7 for the first time against Poland in December 2017. Since Poland and Hungary publicly disagreed with the Article 7 procedures against the two countries and a decision in favour of sanctions would require unanimity in the EU Council, the likelihood that sanctions would be introduced was, however, extremely small.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P37">On 25 October 2018 the CEU announced that it would open a campus in Vienna, Austria, for its US-accredited study programmes in the academic year 2019/20, after the university was unable to reach any resolution with the Hungarian Government and was banned from enrolling new students from 1 January 2019. In November 2018 the Hungarian media became further centralized when government-affiliated executives transferred nearly 500 media outlets to the newly created Central European Press and Media Foundation (Közép-Európai Sajtó és Média Alapítvány—KESMA). Lörincz Mészáros, one of the richest citizens in Hungary and a longstanding ally of Orbán, for instance, contributed his entire media portfolio to the foundation, including 18 of the 20 most popular daily newspapers in the country. The Foundation henceforth incorporated the vast majority of all national and regional print media outlets in the country.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P38">A new state-funded electoral campaign prior to the European Parliament elections of May 2019, displaying the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, together with Soros, prompted national and international criticism in February. The billboard stated: `You also have the right to know what Brussels is preparing for!’, informing the public that alleged EU migration plans posed a threat to Hungary’s national security. This campaign was the final provocation for many members of the European People’s Party (EPP), the centre-right grouping in the European Parliament, and it suspended the membership of Fidesz on 20 March, pending a report by an internal EPP commission. </p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P39">Its suspension from the EPP had little effect on the performance of the Fidesz-KDNP alliance in the European Parliament elections on 26 May 2019. It received 52.1% of the votes cast and 13 of the 21 seats allocated to Hungary. The DK became the most successful opposition party, winning 16.3% of the votes and four seats. The MSzP-PM alliance and Jobbik experienced heavy losses, as they were both only able to secure one seat each, with 6.7% and 6.4% of the votes, respectively. An unexpected development was the relatively strong performance of the liberal Momentum, which had been reconstituted as a party 2017, with 9.9% of the votes and two seats. Voter turnout in the European elections increased by some 14 percentage points to the highest level yet recorded, of 43.4%.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P40">Academic freedom in Hungary deteriorated further in July 2019, as the National Assembly adopted a law restructuring the Hungarian Academy of Sciences (Magyar Tudományos Akadémia). The changes took effect on 1 September, incorporating the Academy’s 15 research institutes into a new state agency, the Eötvös Loránd Research Network (ELKH), and greatly increasing government control through a board established to oversee their activities. At the end of September the European Parliament rejected the candidate nominated to the European Commission by Hungary, diplomat László Trócsányi, owing to concerns over a conflict of interest. Instead, Olivér Várhelyi, a lawyer and diplomat, became European Commissioner for Neighbourhood and Enlargement in the new Commission led by Ursula von der Leyen.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P41">Municipal elections were held on 13 October 2019, in which the Fidesz-KDNP coalition relied on its proven strategy of mobilizing the electorate with conspiracy theories and anti-immigration messages. Opposition candidates were accused of planning to `flood’ Hungary with Muslim migrants by the extensive pro-Government media. Additionally, high-level politicians of the governing coalition, including Orbán, announced that opposition-led municipalities might lose significant funds from the Government.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P42">Unlike the European elections in May 2019, the municipal polls brought some notable victories for the opposition, particularly in Budapest and other major cities. Its successful strategy was to nominate a joint candidate in many municipalities. The greatest opposition success was regaining control of the capital after nine years, as Gergely Karácsony received 51% of the votes cast, defeating the incumbent Mayor, István Tarlós of Fidesz. Karácsony of the PM was supported by a large number of opposition parties (the MSzP, the DK, Momentum, the LMP and the MLP), while Jobbik abstained from running a candidate against him. The opposition managed to win a majority in 12 of the 23 districts of the capital and in its General Assembly. Moreover, opposition or opposition-supported candidates were elected as mayors in 10 of the 23 cities with county-level status, seven more than in 2014. In rural areas, however, Fidesz remained by far the strongest party, retaining its majority in smaller cities and the 19 county assemblies.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P43">The President of the National Assembly, László Kövér, published a new parliamentary code of conduct on 19 October 2019, which restricted journalists to a cordoned area and prohibited audio and video recordings in certain parts of the building. In the same month several mandates expired in the Media Council, a central organ within the National Media and Infocommunications Authority (Nemzeti Média- és Hírközlési Hatóság—NMHH) established in 2010 to monitor the new media laws. The Fidesz-KDNP coalition approved four new members on 10 December 2019, all closely connected to the Government, including Ágnes Hankiss, a former representative of Fidesz in the European Parliament.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P44">The success of the opposition in October 2019 was followed by several reforms in November and December. In November the Fidesz-KDNP Government transferred substantial powers and assets relating to construction and building permits from municipalities to the national level, limiting the scope of local governance. Furthermore, in December the approval of a number of legislative amendments made opposition co-operation in the National Assembly more difficult, restricting the formation of parliamentary groups to deputies elected by the same party and banning party blocs from splitting. The measures threatened the resources of opposition parties, as the size of a parliamentary group affects its designated office space, its public financing and its speaking time in the Assembly. On the same day the Government adopted further comprehensive legislation concerning the judiciary. Among numerous changes, this enabled a member of the Constitutional Court to become a judge in the Supreme Court after their previous mandate expired. The new legislation attracted national and international criticism, as it further served to hamper opposition co-operation and to limit the independence of the judiciary. Nevertheless, despite the mixed results of the municipal elections, the governing coalition had managed to restore its popularity at national level by the end of the year, particularly owing to positive developments in the economy.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>State of Emergency during the COVID-19 Crisis</heading>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P46">The first months of 2020 were dominated by the COVID-19 pandemic. Although Hungary was only moderately affected in early 2020, compared with other European countries, the National Assembly approved the Enabling Act on 30 March. This emergency law granted unlimited power of decree to Prime Minister Orbán to `guarantee for Hungarian citizens the safety of life and health’. A state of emergency was imposed for an indefinite period, although the parliament and the Constitutional Court were entitled to revoke it at any point, which in addition cancelled all elections, suspended the National Assembly’s powers to legislate and introduced two new crimes into the Criminal Code to be punishable with long prison sentences: the dissemination of false news and the obstruction of government measures to counter the virus. The Act prompted widespread criticism and some observers even portrayed Hungary as the EU’s `first dictatorship’. The measures also encouraged critics who demanded that Fidesz be expelled from the EPP permanently, as its suspension had been extended indefinitely in early February 2020. The Hungarian Government employed xenophobic and anti-Semitic rhetoric, as it linked the spread of the virus to the conspiracy theory regarding the alleged plan by Soros to bring migrants to Europe. Meanwhile, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szíjártó publicly praised medical assistance from China. The National Assembly voted to end the state of emergency on 16 June. At the same time, it adopted a new bill on the so-called state of medical emergency, which would allow the Government to rule by decree in times of medical peril with even fewer controls.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P49">Legal and political disputes between the Hungarian Government and EU institutions continued throughout 2020. The European Court of Justice (ECJ) ruled in May that the so-called transit zones, the fenced-off migration camps on the border with Serbia, were not compatible with EU law, prompting the Hungarian authorities to close the zones. In December, the ECJ judged in a similar fashion that Hungary had failed to grant international protection for third-country nationals. Since Hungary refused to implement this latest ruling, the EU European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Frontex) announced its withdrawal from Hungary on 30 January 2021. Frontex had never before suspended its activities in an EU member country, stating that the agency did not want to be `complicit’ in Hungary’s illegal pushbacks of migrants.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P50">On 18 June 2020 the ECJ ruled the `NGO law’ of 2017 to be stigmatizing, harmful and in breach of EU law. In late September, Věra Jourová, the European Commission Vice-President responsible for Values and Transparency, accused Orbán of `building a sick democracy’; Orbán subsequently called for Jourová’s resignation. In October the ECJ ruled that the higher education law `Lex CEU’ of 2017 violated fundamental EU rights, particularly academic freedom.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P51">Tensions between the Hungarian Government and EU institutions increased further in November 2020 owing to the Union’s newly introduced rule of law mechanism. Under certain circumstances, EU funding to member countries could be reduced if members violated fundamental principles such as the independence of the judiciary. As Hungary and Poland were likely to be affected by the mechanism first, their respective Governments blocked the EU’s 2021-27 budget and post-pandemic recovery fund, with a combined joint value of €1,850,000m. Negotiations continued until mid-December, when the two countries gave up their veto position. However, Poland and Hungary immediately announced their challenge to the rule of law clause and launched legal action at the ECJ in March 2021. (On 16 February 2022 the ECJ dismissed the Hungarian and Polish complaints against the EU rule of law mechanism.)</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P52">On 26 February 2021 the leaders of the EPP group in the European Parliament announced the amendment of its rules of procedure, permitting it to exclude members or parties. Before the amendment came into place, Fidesz withdrew from the group and Orbán scheduled a meeting for April with Matteo Salvini of the Italian Lega (League) party and the Prime Minister of Poland, Mateusz Morawiecki (of the national conservative Prawo i Sprawiedliwość—Law and Justice—party) to discuss the possibility of forming a new group in the European Parliament.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P53">
      Domestic media pluralism and critical journalism continued to suffer from political or politically motivated decisions—not only because of newly introduced restrictions regarding reporting about the COVID-19 pandemic. In July 2020 Szabolcs Dull, the editor-in-chief of 
      <i>Index.hu</i>
      , the most influential independent online news portal, was dismissed after Miklós Vaszily, a media entrepreneur with close ties to Orbán, acquired the 50% of the company that handled the outlet’s advertising business. Subsequently, the outlet’s more than 80 employees, including the entire editorial staff, resigned in protest. Additionally, thousands gathered in the capital to protest against the dismissal of Dull. In October former journalists of 
      <i>Index.hu</i>
       founded the new portal 
      <i>Telex.hu</i>
      . In early February 2021 the Media Council stripped Klubrádió, the country’s last major independent radio broadcaster, of its frequency.
    </p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P55">Moreover, the Government continued to transform the country’s academic landscape radically, as it pushed to privatize higher education and put universities under the control of Fidesz-controlled asset management foundations. By April 2021 only four universities had not yet been transferred to the control of such foundations. On 20 April Fudan University, based in Shanghai, China, announced that it intended to open a campus in Budapest in 2024, which increased the debate on the geopolitical orientation of Hungary.</p>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P54">The Government continued its hostile rhetoric and policy towards minorities, particularly towards the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT), and Roma communities. In May 2020 the National Assembly approved a law prohibiting people from changing their legal gender, and in December it passed a resolution restricting adoption of children to married couples, while a new constitutional amendment, adopted on the same day, confirmed marriage as a heterosexual institution, in effect banning homosexuals from adopting children. New legislation, approved by the National Assembly in mid-June 2021, presented by the Government as a `child protection’ law, prohibited or severely restricted the distribution, production or broadcast of media intended for children that portrayed `divergence from self-identity corresponding to sex at birth, sex change or homosexuality’.</p>
          <p>On 15 July 2021 the European Commission launched two infringement actions for discrimination against Hungary in relation to the recently approved legislation, which had been widely criticized within the EU and by a majority of its member countries. A rule of law report by the European Commission stated that Hungary had not improved in terms of rule of law, media pluralism or corruption, and in late July Didier Reynders, the European Commissioner with responsibility for Justice, announced that Hungary’s application for COVID-19 economic recovery funds from the EU would not be approved until reforms had been implemented.</p>
          <p>Also in July 2021 a global investigative journalism project revealed that the Hungarian Government was one of several internationally to have deployed the Israeli-developed surveillance software, Pegasus, to monitor about 300 Hungarian citizens, among them opposition politicians, activists, lawyers, business people and journalists. In early November Fidesz Vice-President and Chairman of the parliamentary Committee on Defence and Law Enforcement Lajos Kósa confirmed the use of the software. Meanwhile, in late July Orbán announced the intention to hold a national referendum on questions related to what he described as `sexual propaganda’, seemingly in an attempt to demonstrate public support for the recently approved contentious legislation. For many observers, the call for a referendum appeared to serve as a distraction from the Pegasus scandal.</p>
          <p>Hungary’s six main opposition parties organized the first nationwide primaries on 18-28 September 2021, with a second round on 10-16 October, to nominate a joint candidate for the post of Prime Minister to run against Orbán and to select candidates for all 106 single-mandate districts in the 2022 legislative elections. Some 850,000 voters participated in the two rounds, which mobilized independent Hungarian civil society. Conservative Márki-Zay, the independent Mayor of Hódmezővásárhely, secured 56.7% of the votes cast in the second round, defeating left-wing Klára Dobrev (of the DK), a Vice-President of the European Parliament and wife of former Prime Minister Gyurcsány.</p>
          <p>In late 2021 the number of new COVID-19 cases rose again in Europe, including Hungary. Access to public information remained limited and the Hungarian authorities largely ignored information requests. Data from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control showed that by the end of 2021 the number of deaths from COVID-19 per million of the population in Hungary was the second highest in the EU.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>The Parliamentary Elections of 2022 and the War in Ukraine</heading>
          <p>
      The Russian invasion of Ukraine on 24 February 2022 represented a historic point in Europe’s security policy and global politics. The war in Ukraine led to further isolation of Hungary in the EU, due to Orbán’s close relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin, and well-established Russian-Hungarian diplomatic and business ties. At the same time, during the electoral period Orbán was able to draw public attention almost exclusively to the potential repercussions of the war in neighbouring Ukraine on Hungary. Orbán successfully presented the forthcoming elections as a choice between `war and peace’, accusing the opposition of `already having struck a deal with the Ukrainians’. He portrayed himself once again as Hungary’s protector, who could guarantee that Hungary would not become involved in the conflict. In addition, owing to the lack of media pluralism, the opposition parties did not manage to convey their own perspectives to the population, especially in the traditional Fidesz strongholds in rural Hungary, and failed to mobilize voters. 
      <!--https://www.hrw.org/news/2022/03/04/hungary-smear-campaign-targets-critical-voiceshttps://www.hrw.org/news/2022/03/04/hungary-smear-campaign-targets-critical-voices-->
      Meanwhile, in February pro-Government daily newspaper 
      <i>Magyar Nemzet</i>
       published a series of articles that were intended to discredit critical journalists and civil society activists. The articles were based on recordings made under dubious circumstances and supported conspiracy narratives of the Government.
    </p>
          <p>The parliamentary elections, which took place on 3 April 2022, brought another overwhelming victory for Orbán and Fidesz. The long-term coalition between Fidesz and the KDNP received 54.1% of the votes cast on a party list basis and 135 of the 199 seats in the National Assembly, thereby securing a further parliamentary supermajority that was not foreseen by many observers. The Egységben Magyarországért (United for Hungary) coalition of the six opposition parties, led by Márki-Zay, was placed second, with 34.4% of party list votes and 57 seats. Mi Hazánk Mozgalom (Our Homeland Movement), a radical far-right party founded in 2018, mostly by Jobbik dissidents, was placed third with 5.9% of party list votes and six seats. Many observers, including the OSCE’s monitoring mission, criticized the electoral conditions as being unfair, citing in particular media bias and campaign finance regulations in favour of the ruling coalition. In August Márki-Zay revealed that his electoral campaign had received funding from a US-based NGO, Action for Democracy. Both the Government and pro-Government media accused the NGO of foreign interference and Márki-Zay of being controlled by foreigners. </p>
          <p>The so-called `child protection’ referendum was held concurrently with the parliamentary elections on 3 April 2022. The internationally criticized referendum contained four questions on whether information on LGBT issues should be available to minors in the media and taught in public education institutes. Although more than 90% of the participating electorate voted against the four proposals in accordance with the Government’s position, the overall share of valid votes was below the required 50% threshold, invalidating the result.</p>
          <p>The war in Ukraine continued to dominate Hungarian politics after the elections. By mid-May 2022 more than 620,000 refugees from Ukraine had crossed the border with Hungary since the Russian invasion on 24 February. However, the large majority did not remain in Hungary. Moreover, the Hungarian Government delayed or blocked the imposition of some EU sanctions against Russia, especially opposing an embargo on Russian oil imports as part of a sixth package of sanctions, which was formally announced on 3 June. As a compromise, Hungary, together with the Czech Republic and Slovakia, was granted a temporary exemption to the embargo, which other EU states were to implement by the end of 2022.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Further Tightening of the Authoritarian Grip</heading>
          <p>Former Fidesz parliamentary deputy Katalin Novák assumed the presidency on 10 May 2022, becoming the first woman to hold the office as well as the youngest President in Hungarian history, after her election (with 137 of the votes cast) by the Fidesz-dominated National Assembly on 10 March. Also in May the Constitutional Court rejected two proposals for national referendums by the Mayor of Budapest, Gergely Karácsony, concerning the disputed construction of a campus for China’s Fudan University in the capital and the extension of jobseekers’ allowances.</p>
          <p>On 24 May 2022 the Government secured parliamentary approval of a constitutional amendment granting Prime Minister Orbán emergency powers due to the war in Ukraine. The new `state of danger’ effectively prolonged the pandemic state of emergency that was due to expire at the end of May, and the amendment allowed Orbán to continue to rule by decree and further restricted parliamentary oversight. In July the Government approved an amendment to the Fundamental Law deciding that future European parliamentary elections, including the 2024 elections, would be held simultaneously with local elections. This move served to disadvantage the opposition in both elections, as they tend to form coalitions in local elections, but have to run separately under the proportional representation system for European elections. </p>
          <p>During the second half of 2022 key speeches of Orbán, made, for instance, in Băile Tuşnad, Romania, in July or at the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) in Dallas, TX, USA, in August, indicated further ideological radicalization. The Government’s denigration campaigns continued to target NGOs and minorities, especially the LGBT community. Moreover, Fidesz’s new partnerships were increasingly forged with far-right parties and politicians, instead of conservative right-wing actors. In May Fidesz hosted the first European Conservative Political Action Conference in Budapest, which was attended by many international figures from the far right. The event was repeated in May 2023 with a similar attendance.</p>
          <p>In July 2022 the European Commission referred the Hungarian Government to the ECJ over the `child protection’ law of 2021. Furthermore, in 2022 Hungary lost several cases that had been launched by asylum seekers at the European Court of Human Rights due to illegal and violent `pushbacks’ of migrants at Hungary’s border with Serbia. In September the European Commission proposed the suspension of €7,500m. of EU structural funds allocated to Hungary and demanded that the Government improve its anti-corruption measures. Although the European Commission’s demands had still not been met in December, the Commission and the Council of the EU reached a deal with the Hungarian Government. The Commission approved the Government’s economic recovery plan and reduced the amount of frozen funds to €6,300m., but made its disbursement, as well as that of EU post-pandemic recovery funds, conditional upon the fulfilment of 27 rule of law `milestones’. In exchange, Hungary lifted its veto on the adoption of an €18,000m. EU aid package for Ukraine and of a minimum global corporate tax rate.</p>
          <p>
      Meanwhile, the political appointment of Fidesz allies continued throughout 2022. For instance, in July the National Judicial Council found that the President of the Kúria (Supreme Court), András Zsolt Varga, had appointed lower-rated candidates in five out of 11 cases during 2021. Shortly afterwards his wife, Helga Mariann Kovács, was nominated as head of a chamber at the Budapest Court of Appeal, despite receiving less support than the rival candidate. In September a close ally of Orbán, Gábor Siszkay
      
      , was reinstalled to lead the powerful central media foundation KESMA. Also in September Hungary strengthened its abortion legislation with the adoption of a so-called `foetal heartbeat’ decree, requiring women seeking an abortion to listen to the heartbeat of the embryo beforehand.
    </p>
          <p>In October 2022 teachers, students and parents organized a series of larger protests to demand an increase in teachers’ salaries and the restoration of teaching autonomy. Government officials reacted to the demonstrations by removing many from their positions to silence the criticism. Amid new calls for strike action in early 2023, the Government passed a decree in February that limited the right of teachers to strike. Both unions and the opposition unsuccessfully challenged the decree at the Constitutional Court. In January 2023 the EU decided to suspend funding for 21 foundation-managed Hungarian universities, citing potential corruption and conflict of interest since high-ranking government politicians were members of the universities’ boards of trustees.</p>
          <!--actually early 2022, moved above-->
          <p>After months of postponements, the National Assembly ratified Finland’s application for NATO accession in March 2023; however, it continued to delay approval of Sweden’s concurrent application. At the end of May the European Parliament approved a non-binding resolution to suspend Hungary’s forthcoming presidency of the Council of the EU in the second half of 2024, indicating new tensions between Hungary and the EU.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Future Prospects</heading>
          <p id="HUNGARIAN.HISTORY.P56">Since the success of Orbán’s Fidesz-KDNP coalition in the 2010 parliamentary elections, the Government of Hungary managed to maintain its popularity and secure victory in the elections of 2014, 2018 and 2022, winning a two-thirds’ majority on the three occasions. The principal governing party, Fidesz, which had previously supported the development towards liberal democracy in Central and Eastern Europe from 1989, subsequently took several formal and informal measures in office to weaken checks and balances, strengthen its position regarding the electoral system, control most of the media outlets and create the perception that multiple enemies threatened Hungarian national security.</p>
          <p>The overwhelming success of Fidesz in the April 2022 parliamentary elections brought an end to opposition hopes of defeating Orbán. Meanwhile, tensions with the EU are expected to reach new heights, especially due to Hungary’s close ties to Russia and its ongoing critical stance towards the EU sanctions against Russia. Furthermore, Orbán has managed to maintain his power through political appointments in the judicial system, the media council or state-owned companies. Despite civil society having been increasingly restricted, it expressed its criticism through public protest, although such demonstrations have so far failed to reach a level that would substantially influence or threaten the Government.</p>
          <p>The evolution of the Government’s approach led to growing domestic and international criticism, and to the triggering of Article 7 sanctions procedures by the EU in 2018, followed by the implementation of the rule of law mechanism in 2021. Correspondingly, the assessment of democracy in Hungary declined, according to the most important international democratic indices. In mid-2023 the EU was withholding almost €28,000m. in funds allocated to Hungary for the 2021-27 period. It remains to be seen to what extent Hungary is willing to fulfil the 27 `milestones’ required to gain access to the funds or whether the EU will soften these criteria when needing Hungary’s approval in unanimous decision-making processes.</p>
     </gen-section>
</country-survey>