<?xml version="1.0"?>
<directory id="SI.DIR" id-root="si" iso="si" name-markup-type="STANDARD" original-filename="svndir1.rtf" print-style="PGWIDTH" usage="ewyb casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <dir-section id="SI.DIR.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
          <heading>Directory</heading>
          <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb casee">Slovenia</alt-heading>
          <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb casee">Directory</alt-heading>
          <dir-sectref dir-sectiondtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" id="SL62180" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="62179" slsdocid="61021" slsdocty="dir-section dir-sectiondtd"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
               
               <dir-section id="SI.DIR.2" id-root="si.dir" iso="si" sect-type="constitution" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="casee">
                    <heading>The Constitution</heading>
                    <p id="SI.DIR.3">The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was enacted on 23 December 1991. The following is a summary of the Constitution’s main articles:</p>
                    <dir-section id="SI.DIR.4" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                         <heading>Introduction</heading>
                         <p id="SI.DIR.5">Slovenia is a democratic republic, governed by the rule of law. Slovenia is a territorially indivisible state. Human rights and fundamental freedoms—including the rights of the autochthonous Italian and Hungarian ethnic communities—are protected. Slovenia attends to the welfare of Slovenian emigrants and migrant workers abroad.</p>
                         <p id="SI.DIR.6">The separation of church and state is guaranteed. Religious groups enjoy equal rights under the law and are guaranteed freedom of activity.</p>
                         <p id="SI.DIR.7">The autonomy of local government in Slovenia is guaranteed. The capital of the republic is Ljubljana. The official language of Slovenia is Slovene. In those areas where Italian or Hungarian ethnic communities reside, the official language is also Italian or Hungarian.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="SI.DIR.8" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                         <heading>Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms</heading>
                         <p id="SI.DIR.9">All persons are guaranteed equal human rights and fundamental freedoms, irrespective of national origin, race, sex, language, religion, political or other beliefs, financial status, birth, education or social status, and all persons are equal before the law. Human life is inviolable, and there is no capital punishment. No person may be subjected to torture, inhuman or humiliating punishment or treatment. The right of each individual to personal liberty is guaranteed.</p>
                         <p id="SI.DIR.10">Respect for the humanity and dignity of the individual is guaranteed in all criminal or other proceedings. Except for certain situations (as determined by statute), all court proceedings are conducted in public. Each person is guaranteed the right of appeal. Any person charged with a criminal offence is presumed innocent until proven guilty.</p>
                         <p id="SI.DIR.11">Each person has the right to freedom of movement. The right to own and to inherit property is guaranteed. Freedom of expression of thought, freedom of speech, freedom to associate in public, and the freedom of the press are guaranteed. The right to vote is universal and equal. Each citizen who has attained the age of 18 years is eligible both to vote and to stand for election.</p>
                         <p id="SI.DIR.12">The freedom of work is guaranteed. The state regulates compulsory health, pension, disability and other social insurance, and ensures the proper administration thereof. Education is free, and the state provides the opportunity for all citizens to obtain a proper education.</p>
                         <p id="SI.DIR.13">Each person is entitled freely to identify with his national grouping or ethnic community, to foster and give expression to his culture, and to use his own language and script. All incitement to ethnic, racial, religious or other discrimination, as well as the inflaming of ethnic, racial, religious or other hatred or intolerance, is unconstitutional, as is incitement to violence or to war. The autochthonous Italian and Hungarian ethnic communities are guaranteed the right freely to use their national symbols . These two communities have the right to education and schooling in their own languages. They are also entitled to establish autonomous organizations in order to exercise their rights. The Italian and Hungarian communities are directly represented, both at the local level and in the Državni zbor (National Assembly). The status and special rights of Gypsy (Roma) communities living in Slovenia are determined by statute.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="SI.DIR.14" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                         <heading>Economic and Social Relations</heading>
                         <p id="SI.DIR.15">The state is responsible for the creation of opportunities for employment. Each person has the right to a healthy environment, and the state is responsible for such an environment.</p>
                         <p id="SI.DIR.16">Free enterprise is guaranteed. The establishment of trade unions, and the operation and membership thereof, is free. Workers enjoy the right to strike. The state creates the conditions necessary to enable each citizen to obtain proper housing.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="SI.DIR.17" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                         <heading>Administration of the State</heading>
                         <dir-section id="SI.DIR.18" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                              <heading>Državni Zbor (The National Assembly)</heading>
                              <p id="SI.DIR.19">The National Assembly consists of 90 deputies, who serve a four-year term; 88 deputies are elected on a proportional basis from within eight regions, each of which is subdivided into 11 constituencies (although not all constituencies will necessarily obtain a direct representative). The remaining two deputies are elected as representatives of the Italian and Hungarian ethnic communities of Slovenia. The President (Speaker) of the National Assembly is elected by a majority vote of all elected dep­uties.</p>
                              <p id="SI.DIR.20">The National Assembly enacts laws; makes other decisions; author­izes adherence to international agreements; may call a referendum; may proclaim a state of war or a state of emergency, at the initiative of the Government; and may establish parliamentary inquiries with respect to matters of public importance.</p>
                         </dir-section>
                         <dir-section id="SI.DIR.21" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                              <heading>Državni Svet (The National Council)</heading>
                              <p id="SI.DIR.22">The National Council represents social, economic, trade and professional, and local interests. It is composed of 40 councillors: four representing employers; four representing employees; four representing farmers, small business persons and independent professional persons; six representing non-profit-making organizations; and 22 representing local interests. Councillors are elected for a five-year term.</p>
                              <p id="SI.DIR.23">The National Council may: propose the enactment of statutes by the National Assembly; demand that the National Assembly reconsider statutes prior to their proclamation; demand the holding of a referendum; and demand the establishment of a parliamentary inquiry. The National Assembly may require the National Council to provide its opinions on specific matters. A councillor of the National Council may not be simultaneously a deputy of the National Assembly.</p>
                         </dir-section>
                         <dir-section id="SI.DIR.24" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                              <heading>The President of the Republic</heading>
                              <p id="SI.DIR.25">The President of the Republic of Slovenia is head of state and Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces. The President is elected on the basis of universal, equal and direct suffrage by secret ballot. The President’s term of office is five years (with a maximum of two consecutive terms). Only a citizen of Slovenia may be elected Presi­dent of the Republic. Presidential elections are called by the President of the National Assembly. The office of President of the Republic is incompatible with other public offices or other employment. In the event that the President of the Republic is permanently incapacitated, dies, resigns or is otherwise per­manently unable to perform his functions, the President of the National Assembly temporarily occupies the office of the President of the Republic until such time as a replacement is elected.</p>
                              <p id="SI.DIR.26">The President of the Republic is empowered to: call elections to the National Assembly; proclaim statutes; appoint state officers and functionaries; accredit, and revoke the accreditation of, Slovenian ambassadors to foreign states, and accept the credentials of foreign diplomatic representatives; grant amnesties; and confer state honours, decorations and honorary titles.</p>
                              <p id="SI.DIR.27">If, in the course of carrying out his office, the President of the Republic acts in a manner contrary to the Constitution or commits a serious breach of the law, he may be brought before the Constitutional Court upon the request of the National Assembly. The Pres­ident may be dismissed from office upon the vote of no less than two-thirds of all of the judges of the Constitutional Court.</p>
                         </dir-section>
                         <dir-section id="SI.DIR.28" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                              <heading>The Government</heading>
                              <p id="SI.DIR.29">The Government is composed of the Prime Minister and ministers. The Government is independent, and individual ministers are inde­pendent within their own particular portfolios. Ministers are accountable to the National Assembly. After consultations with the leaders of the various political groups within the National Assembly, the President of the Republic proposes to the National Assembly a candidate for the office of Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is elected by the National Assembly by a majority vote. Ministers in the Government are appointed or dismissed by the National Assembly, upon the proposal of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is responsible for the political unity, direction and administrative programme of the Government and for the co-ordination of the work of the various ministers. The National Assembly may, upon the motion of no fewer than 10 deputies and by a majority vote, elect a new Prime Minister (such a vote is deemed a vote of no confidence’ in the Government). Furthermore, the National Assembly may bring the Prime Minister or any minister before the Constitutional Court to answer charges relating to breaches of the Constitution.</p>
                         </dir-section>
                         <dir-section id="SI.DIR.30" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                              <heading>The Judiciary</heading>
                              <p id="SI.DIR.31">Judges independently exercise their duties and functions in accordance with the Constitution and with the law. The Supreme Court is the highest court for civil and criminal cases in the republic. The National Assembly elects judges upon the recommendation of the Judicial Council, which is composed of 11 members. The office of a judge is incompatible with office in any other state body, local government body or organ of any political party.</p>
                         </dir-section>
                         <dir-section id="SI.DIR.32" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                              <heading>The Office of the Public Prosecutor</heading>
                              <p id="SI.DIR.33">The Public Prosecutor is responsible for the preferment of criminal charges, for prosecuting criminal matters in court and for the performance of such other duties as are prescribed by statute.</p>
                         </dir-section>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="SI.DIR.34" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                         <heading>Local Self-Government</heading>
                         <p id="SI.DIR.35">
            Slovenians exercise local government powers and functions through self-governing municipalities and other local government organizations. A municipality may comprise a single community or a number of communities, whose inhabitants are bound together by common needs and interests. The state supervises the proper and efficient performance of municipalities and wider self-governing local administrative bodies. Municipal­ities raise their own revenue. Municipalities are at liberty to join other municipalities in establishing wider self-governing local administrative bodies or regional local government bodies to exercise administrative powers and to deal with matters of wider common interest. Citizens may join together and form self-governing local bodies to further their common interests.
            <!--DH: maybe add something to effect that (by mid 2003) 20 "muncipalities"/communes were obliged by law to ensure representation of Roma. need to find more info on this-->
                         </p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="SI.DIR.36" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                         <heading>Public Finance</heading>
                         <p id="SI.DIR.39">The Bank of Slovenia is the central bank. It is independent in its operations and accountable to the National Assembly. The Governor of the Bank of Slovenia is appointed by the National Assembly.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="SI.DIR.40" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                         <heading>The Constitutional Court</heading>
                         <p id="SI.DIR.41">The Constitutional Court is composed of nine judges, elected by the National Assembly, upon the nomination of the President of the Republic, for a single term of nine years. The President of the Constitutional Court is elected by the judges from among their own number to hold office for a period of three years.</p>
                         <p id="SI.DIR.42">The Constitutional Court is empowered to decide upon matters relating to: the conformity of statutes with the Constitution and with international agreements; complaints of breaches of the Constitution involving individual acts infringing human rights and fundamental freedoms; juridical disputes between the state and local government bodies or among such local government bodies; juridical disputes between the National Assembly, the President of the Republic and the Government; and unconstitutional acts or activities of political parties.</p>
                    </dir-section>
               </dir-section>
          </dir-sectref>
          </dir-section>
     </directory>