<?xml version="1.0"?>
<bibl-ref bibl-dtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" id="SL61782" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="61781" slsdocid="55811" slsdocty="bibl-section bibl-dtd"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
          
          <bibl-section id="BG.DIR.682" id-root="bg.dir" iso="bg" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="BIBL-REF" usage="casee">
               <heading>Bibliography</heading>
               <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Bulgaria</alt-heading>
               <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Bibliography</alt-heading>
               <bibl-list>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Bell, J. D. 
          <i>Bulgaria in Transition: Politics, Economy, Society and Culture after Communism</i>
          . Abingdon, Routledge, 2019.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Bozhilova, D. 
          <i>Bulgaria's Quest for EU Membership: The Europeanization of Policies in Transition</i>
          . Milton Keynes, Author House, 2008.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Chary, F. B. 
          <i>The History of Bulgaria</i>
          . Santa Barbara, CA, Greenwood, 2011.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Crampton, R.&#160;J. 
          <i>A Concise History of Bulgaria</i>
          . Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 2005.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Dimitrov, V. 
          <i>Stalin's Cold War: Soviet Foreign Policy, Democracy and Communism in Bulgaria, 1941-1948.</i>
           Basingstoke, Palgrave Macmillan, 2008.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
                         <i>Bulgaria: The Uneven Transition</i>
          . Abingdon, Routledge, 2013.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Dimitrova, T. and Kahl, T. (Eds). 
          <i>Migration From and Towards Bulgaria 1989-2011</i>
          . Berlin, Frank &amp; Timme, 2014.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Dragostinova, T. 
          <i>Between Two Motherlands: Nationality and Emigration Among the Greeks of Bulgaria, 1900-1949.</i>
           Ithaca, NY, Cornell University Press, 2011.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Ganev, V. 
          <i>Preying on the State: the Transformation of Bulgaria after 1989.</i>
           London, Cornell University Press, 2007.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Giatzidis, E. 
          <i>An Introduction to Post-Communist Bulgaria: Political, Economic and Social Transformation</i>
          . Manchester, Manchester University Press, 2002.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Jones, D. C., and Miller, J. 
          <i>The Bulgarian Economy: Lessons from Reform During Early Transition</i>
          . Abingdon, Routledge, 2020.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Katsikas, S. 
          <i>Negotiating Diplomacy in the New Europe: Foreign Policy in Post-Communist Bulgaria</i>
          . London, I. B. Tauris, 2011.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Katsikas, S. (Ed.). 
          <i>Bulgaria and Europe: Shifting Identities</i>
          . London, Anthem Press, 2010.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Koinova, M. 
          <i>Ethnonationalist Conflict in Postcommunist States: Varieties of Governance in Bulgaria, Macedonia, and Kosovo</i>
          . Philadelphia, PA, University of Pennsylvania Press, 2013.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Melone, A.&#160;P. 
          <i>Creating Parliamentary Government: The Transition to Democracy in Bulgaria</i>
          . Columbus, OH, Ohio University Press, 1998.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Myuhtar-May, F. 
          <i>Cultural Heritage Under Siege: Five Narratives of Pomak Heritage—From Forced Renaming to Weddings.</i>
           Leiden, Brill, 2014.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Neuberger, M. 
          <i>The Orient Within: Muslim Minorities and the Negotiation of Nationhood in Modern Bulgaria</i>
          . Ithaca, NY, Cornell University Press, 2004.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
                         <i>Balkan Smoke: Tobacco and the Making of Modern Bulgaria</i>
          . Ithaca, NY, Cornell University Press, 2013.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Perry, D. 
          <i>Stefan Stambolov and the Emergence of Modern Bulgaria, 1870-1895</i>
          . Durham, NC, Duke University Press, 1993.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Stankova, M. 
          <i>Georgi Dimitrov: A Biography</i>
          . London, I. B. Tauris, 2010.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Svetlozar, A. 
          <i>Europeanization from Below: Civil Society Monitoring of Bulgaria's Accession to the EU.</i>
           Aberdeen, Centre for the Study of Public Policy, University of Aberdeen, 2007.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Sygkelos, Y. 
          <i>Nationalist from The Left: The Bulgarian Communist Party during the Second World War and the Early Postwar Years</i>
          . Leiden, Brill, 2011.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Znepolski, I. et al. 
          <i>Bulgaria under Communism</i>
          . Abingdon, Routledge, 2020.
        </bibl-entry>
               </bibl-list>
          </bibl-section>
     </bibl-ref>
