<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="AMF.IO" id-root="amf.io" iso="amf.io" original-filename="wb02030.txt" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="edio mena"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>Arab Monetary Fund</org-entry-name>
               <abbr>AMF</abbr>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">MAJOR NON-UN ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="mena">REGIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE">Arab Monetary Fund</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>Arab Monetary Fund Bldg, Corniche Rd, POB 2818, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates</verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 6215000</telephone>
               <fax>(2) 6326454</fax>
               <email>economic@amfad.org.ae</email>
               <internet>www.amf.org.ae</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p id="AMF.IO.186">The Agreement establishing the Arab Monetary Fund (AMF) was approved by the Economic Council of Arab States in Rabat, Morocco, in April 1976 and entered into force on 2 February 1977.</p>
          <int-org-section id="AMF.IO.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Members</heading>
               <p>There are 22 members (see list of subscriptions).</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="AMF.IO.3" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <heading-note>November 2023</heading-note>
          <int-org-section id="AMF.IO.4" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Board of Governors</heading>
               <p id="AMF.IO.209">The Board of Governors is the highest authority of the AMF. It formulates policies on Arab economic integration and the liberalization of trade among member states. The Board of Governors is composed of a governor and a deputy governor appointed by each member state for a term of five years. It meets at least once a year; meetings may also be convened at the request of half of the membership, or of members holding half of the total voting power.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="AMF.IO.5" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Board of Executive Directors</heading>
               <p id="AMF.IO.210">The Board of Executive Directors exercises all powers vested in it by the Board of Governors and may delegate to the Director-General such powers as it deems fit. It is composed of the Director-General and eight non-resident directors elected by the Board of Governors. Each director holds office for three years and may be re-elected. An Audit and Risk Committee reports directly to the Board.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="AMF.IO.6" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Director-General</heading>
               <p id="AMF.IO.211">The Director-General of the Fund is appointed by the Board of Governors for a renewable five-year term, and serves as Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors.</p>
               <p id="AMF.IO.212">The Director-General supervises the Economic Department, Training and Capacity Building Institute, Investment Department, Finance Department, Support Services Department, Legal and Compliance Department, Strategy and Evaluation Unit, and Risk Management Unit; an Internal Audit Office that liaises with the Audit and Risk Committee; and advisory Committees on Loans, Investments, Risk Management, and Administration.</p>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="AMF.IO.213" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Director-General and Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Fahd bin Muhammad </forename>
                                        <surname>Al-Turki</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Saudi Arabia</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="AMF.IO.7" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Finance</heading>
               <p id="AMF.IO.214">
        The Arab Accounting Dinar (AAD) is a unit of account equivalent to three IMF Special Drawing Rights (SDRs). (The average value of the SDR in 2022 
        <!--~ 2022-->
        was US&#160;$1.337750.)
      </p>
               <p id="AMF.IO.215">In April 2013 the Board of Governors agreed to increase the AMF’s authorized capital from AAD 600m. to AAD 1,200m. Subscribed capital was to increase by AAD 300m. to AAD 900m. At the end of 2022 total paid-up capital was AAD 883m.</p>
               <table-block id="AMF.IO.216" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="TABLE-BLOCKREF" type="OTHER">
                    <table-heading>Capital Subscriptions</table-heading>
                    <heading-note>million AAD, 31 December 2022</heading-note>
                    <table pgwide="NO" style="WITH-RULES">
                         <tgroup cols="2">
                              <colspec colwidth="15cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="5cm" />
                              <tbody>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Algeria</entry>
                                        <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">116.9</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Bahrain</entry>
                                        <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">13.8</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Comoros</entry>
                                        <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.7</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Djibouti</entry>
                                        <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.7</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Egypt</entry>
                                        <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">88.2</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Iraq</entry>
                                        <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">116.9</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Jordan</entry>
                                        <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">14.9</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Kuwait</entry>
                                        <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">88.2</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Lebanon</entry>
                                        <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">13.8</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Libya</entry>
                                        <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">37.0</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Mauritania</entry>
                                        <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">13.8</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Morocco</entry>
                                        <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">41.3</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Oman</entry>
                                        <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">13.8</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">
                  Palestine
                  <endnoteref idref="AMF.IO.265" ref-symbol="*" />
                                        </entry>
                                        <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">5.9</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Qatar</entry>
                                        <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">27.6</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Saudi Arabia</entry>
                                        <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">133.4</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Somalia</entry>
                                        <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">11.0</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Sudan</entry>
                                        <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">27.6</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Syrian Arab Republic</entry>
                                        <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">19.9</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Tunisia</entry>
                                        <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">19.3</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">United Arab Emirates</entry>
                                        <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">53.0</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Yemen</entry>
                                        <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">42.5</entry>
                                   </row>
                              </tbody>
                         </tgroup>
                    </table>
                    <endnote id="AMF.IO.265" ref-symbol="*">Palestine's share has been deferred by a Board of Governors' resolution issued in 1978</endnote>
               </table-block>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="AMF.IO.8" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Activities</heading>
          <p id="AMF.IO.266">The establishment of the AMF was seen as a step towards the goal of Arab economic integration. The Articles of Agreement define the Fund's aims as follows:</p>
          <gen-list>
               <item>
        (
        <i>a</i>
        ) to correct disequilibria in the balance of payments of member states
      </item>
               <item>
        (
        <i>b</i>
        ) to promote the stability of exchange rates among Arab currencies, to render them mutually convertible, and to elimin­ate restrictions on current payments between member states
      </item>
               <item>
        (
        <i>c</i>
        ) to establish policies and modes of monetary co-operation to accelerate Arab economic integration and economic development in the member states
      </item>
               <item>
        (
        <i>d</i>
        ) to tender advice on the investment of member states' financial resources in foreign markets, whenever called upon to do so
      </item>
               <item>
        (
        <i>e</i>
        ) to promote the development of Arab financial markets
      </item>
               <item>
        (
        <i>f</i>
        ) to promote the use of the Arab dinar as a unit of account and to pave the way for the creation of a unified Arab currency
      </item>
               <item>
        (
        <i>g</i>
        ) to co-ordinate the positions of member states in dealing with international monetary and economic problems; and
      </item>
               <item>
        (
        <i>h</i>
        ) to provide a mechanism for the settlement of current payments between member states in order to promote trade among them
      </item>
          </gen-list>
          <p id="AMF.IO.276">The AMF functions both as a fund and a bank. It is empowered:</p>
          <gen-list>
               <item>
        (
        <i>a</i>
        ) to provide short- and medium-term loans to finance balance of payments deficits of member states
      </item>
               <item>
        (
        <i>b</i>
        ) to issue guarantees to member states to strengthen their borrowing capabilities
      </item>
               <item>
        (
        <i>c</i>
        ) to act as intermediary in the issuance of loans in Arab and international markets for the account of member states and under their guarantees
      </item>
               <item>
        (
        <i>d</i>
        ) to co-ordinate the monetary policies of member states
      </item>
               <item>
        (
        <i>e</i>
        ) to manage any funds placed under its charge by member states
      </item>
               <item>
        (
        <i>f</i>
        ) to hold periodic consultations with member states on their economic conditions; and
      </item>
               <item>
        (
        <i>g</i>
        ) to provide technical assistance to banking and monetary institutions in member states
      </item>
          </gen-list>
          <p-group>
               <heading>Strategic Vision 2040</heading>
               <p>
        During 2020-40 the AMF was pursuing a Strategic Vision 2040, focused on fulfilling its role as the Arab countries’ closest partner in ensuring stability and economic, financial and monetary development, and laying the monetary foundations for Arab economic integration. The Strategic Vision 2040 framework was to be implemented through four five-year medium-term strategic plans. In 2020-25 the AMF was implementing a strategy focused on consolidating its role as the region’s single Arab-owned monetary institution and platform for economic, financial and monetary policymaking consultations; enhancing its role as a centre of excellence for knowledge and capacity building; developing lending to support efforts to redress economic and financial imbalances in member states; and strengthening the financial sector (including through the development of bond markets in local currencies, promoting financial inclusion and modern financial technology, assisting the development of the 
        <i>Shari`a</i>
        -compliant finance sector, and promoting financial integration among Arab countries and with other financial blocs).
      </p>
          </p-group>
          <p>From early 2020 the AMF supported member states in combating adverse impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, and in January 2021 initiated a phase aimed at assisting economic recovery, with a focus on supporting economic, monetary, and financial reforms, resolving emergency balance of payments situations, strengthening the enabling environment for small and medium-sized businesses (SMEs), and promoting financial sustainability and economic diversification.</p>
          <p id="AMF.IO.284">Loans are intended to finance an overall balance of payments deficit and a member may draw up to 75% of its paid-up subscription, in convertible currencies, for this purpose unconditionally (automatic loans). A member may, however, obtain loans in excess of this limit, subject to agreement with the AMF on a programme aimed at reducing its balance of payments deficit (ordinary and extended loans, equivalent to 175% and 250% of its quota, respectively). In addition, a member has the right to borrow up to 100% of paid-up capital under a compensatory loan in order to finance an unexpected deficit in its balance of payments resulting from a decrease in its exports of goods and services or a large increase in its imports of agricultural products following a poor harvest.</p>
          <p id="AMF.IO.285">Automatic and compensatory loans are repayable within three years, while ordinary and extended loans are repayable within five and seven years, respectively. Loans are granted at concessionary and uniform rates of interest that increase with the length of the period of the loan. In 1996 the AMF established the Structural Adjustment Facility, initially providing up to 75% of a member's paid-up subscription and later increased to 175%. In 2009, in order to enhance the flexibility and effectiveness of its lending to meet the needs of member countries affected by the global financial crisis, the Fund determined to extend an access limit of 175% for lending for both the public finance sector and for the financial and banking sector under the Structural Adjustment Facility. A Short Term Liquidity Facility was approved in that year to provide resources to countries with previously strong track records undergoing financial shortages owing to the sharp contraction in international trade and credit. A Trade Reform Facility was initiated in 2007. An Oil Facility was also introduced in that year, but was deemed by a decision of the Fund’s Executive Directors in March 2017 to be no longer in force. In 2016 an SMEs Conducive Environment Support Facility was inaugurated to extend resources of up to 100% of a member’s paid-up subscription in convertible currencies to support reforms in the SME sector. The first loans under the new Facility were approved in 2018.</p>
          <p>The AMF deploys technical missions to member states to follow up reform programmes supported by the Fund’s resources and to assess new requests for loans.</p>
          <p id="AMF.IO.286">During the period 1978-2022 the AMF extended 199 loans, amounting to AAD&#8201;2,851.8m. In 2022 the Fund approved three loans totalling AAD&#8201;119.6m. (compared with AAD&#8201;147.7m. in 2021), to Egypt, Morocco and Tunisia.</p>
          <p>At the end of December 2022 Somalia, Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic and Yemen were in arrears to the Fund (collectively totalling AAD&#8201;243.7m.).</p>
          <p>The AMF's technical assistance activities are extended in the form of specialized training of officials or through the deployment of expert support missions. The Fund’s Training and Capacity Building Institute (TCBI) offers courses (62, conducted in a virtual format, in 2022) to officials in the financial, monetary, economic, commercial and statistical sectors of Arab countries. The AMF implements an Arab Statistics Initiative (ArabStat).</p>
          <p>In February 2023, jointly with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the AMF organized the Seventh Arab Fiscal Forum, in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE), on the theme `Fiscal sustainability in the Arab World beyond the COVID-19 pandemic: Challenges and opportunities’. The AMF convened the fifth Annual Arab Regional Tax Forum in March 2023, in Abu Dhabi, UAE.</p>
          <p>During 2002-22 the Fund provided AAD 62m. in humanitarian support to the Palestinian people. Some 769 Palestinians were receiving TCBI training at the end of 2022.</p>
          <p id="AMF.IO.300">
      The AMF collaborates with Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (AFESD), the League of Arab States and the Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries (OAPEC) in writing and publishing a 
      <publ-name>Joint Arab Economic Report</publ-name>
      . The Fund provides the technical secretariat for the Council of Arab Central Banks and Monetary Authorities’ Governors, and also serves as the technical secretariat of the Council of Arab Finance Ministers, and for various related task forces and committees.
    </p>
          <p> In 1991 the Council established the Arab Committee on Banking Supervision. In 2005 the Council inaugurated a second technical grouping, the Arab Committee on Payments and Settlements Systems. An Arab Economic Database was initiated December 2014. The AMF actively supports the Financial Inclusion for the Arab Region Initiative (FIARI), which was launched by the Council in September 2017. In February 2020 the AMF launched the Buna Regional Payment Platform, to provide centralized multicurrency clearing and settlement services for financial transactions between Arab states and with their principal external trading partners. It was agreed in April 2021 that the Platform would be hosted by the UAE. A Buna Instant Payment Service was initiated in April 2023.</p>
          <p>The AMF participates—with the Islamic Development Bank OPEC Fund, Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa, and other partners—in the Arab Coordination Group (ACG), a strategic alliance that was established in 1975, and aims collectively to optimize resources to advance sustainable development.</p>
          <p>A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was concluded between the AMF and the European Stability Mechanism in March 2022 that provided for a general framework on strengthened collaboration. In April an AMF-African Export-Import Bank MOU was signed, with a view to enhancing economic and financial co-operation.</p>
          <p>
      In May 2022 the AMF published 
      <publ-name>Public Debt in The Arab World: Asymmetric Effects on Economic Growth,</publ-name>
       based on data from 10 Arab countries.
    </p>
          <p>
      In June 2023 the AMF’s 
      <publ-name>Arab Economic Outlook</publ-name>
       envisaged that, collectively, Arab economies would demonstrate growth in 2023 of 3.4%, rising to 4% in 2024.
    </p>
          <int-org-section id="AMF.IO.9" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Trade Promotion</heading>
               <org-list>
                    <org-entry id="AMF.IO.288" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Arab Trade Financing Program</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>ATFP</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>POB 26799, Arab Monetary Fund Bldg, 7th Floor, Corniche Rd, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 6316999</telephone>
                              <fax>(2) 6316793</fax>
                              <email>finadmin@atfp.ae</email>
                              <internet>www.atfp.org.ae</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1989 to develop and promote trade between Arab countries and to enhance the competitive ability of Arab exporters</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">operates by extending lines of credit to Arab exporters and importers through (as at 31 Dec. 2022) 217 national agencies designated by the monetary authorities of 20 Arab and five other countries</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">parti­cipation was also invited from private and official Arab financial institutions and jt Arab/foreign institutions; administers the Inter-Arab Trade Information Network (IATIN), and organizes Buyers-Sellers meetings to promote Arab goods</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the total value of lines of credit extended by the Program since its inception amounted to US&#8201;$19,900m. at 31 Dec. 2022</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">auth. cap. $1,000m. (at 31 Dec. 2022); 53 national and regional Arab financial institutions and banks are shareholders</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Chair. and Chief Exec.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Abdulrahman A.</forename>
                                        <surname>Al Hamidy</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publ. 
            <publ-name>Annual Report</publ-name>
             (Arabic and English)
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
               </org-list>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="AMF.IO.10" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Publications</heading>
          <publ-list>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>A Way to Reform</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Annual Report</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Arab Capital Markets</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">quarterly</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Arab Countries: Economic Indicators</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">annually</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Arab Economic Outlook</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">2 a year</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Foreign Trade of the Arab Countries</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">annually</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Joint Arab Economic Report</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">annually, jtly with AFESD, the League of Arab States and OAPEC</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>National Accounts of the Arab Countries</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">annually</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Statistical Bulletin of Arab Countries</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
          </publ-list>
          <p id="AMF.IO.289">Reports on commodity structure (by value and quantity) of member countries' imports from and exports to other Arab countries; other studies on economic, social, management and fiscal issues.</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="AMF.IO.400" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="mena">
          <heading>Statistics</heading>
          <table-block id="AMF.IO.290" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="TABLE-BLOCKREF" type="OTHER" usage="mena">
               <table-heading>Loans Approved, 2022</table-heading>
               <table pgwide="NO" style="WITH-RULES">
                    <tgroup cols="4">
                         <colspec colwidth="7cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="0.5cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="8.5cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="4cm" />
                         <thead>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Borrower</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Type of loan</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Amount (million AAD)</entry>
                              </row>
                         </thead>
                         <tbody>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER" valign="top">Egypt</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Compensatory</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">87.7</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER" valign="top">Morocco</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">SMEs Conducive Environment Support Facility</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">12.7</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER" valign="top">Tunisia</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Ordinary</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">19.2</entry>
                              </row>
                         </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
               </table>
               <sources>
                    <source-head>Source</source-head>
                    <source-info>
                         <i>Annual Report 2022</i>
                    </source-info>
               </sources>
          </table-block>
     </int-org-section>
</int-org-entry>