<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="APEC.IO" id-root="apec.io" iso="apec.io" original-filename="wb02030.txt" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio fea"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation</org-entry-name>
               <abbr>APEC</abbr>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">MAJOR NON-UN ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="fea eerca">REGIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE">Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>35 Heng Mui Keng Terrace, Singapore 119616</verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <telephone alsofax="N">68919600</telephone>
               <fax>68919690</fax>
               <email>info@apec.org</email>
               <internet>www.apec.org</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p id="APEC.IO.341">APEC was initiated in Nov­ember 1989, in Canberra, Australia, as an informal consultative forum. Its aim is to promote multilateral co-operation on issues of trade liberalization, investment and business facilitation, and to support sustainable economic growth throughout the region. The first meeting of APEC heads of government was convened in November 1993, in Seattle, Washington, USA.</p>
          <int-org-section id="APEC.IO.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Members</heading>
               <table-block-simple id="APEC.IO.2" type="OTHER">
                    <table pgwide="N" style="WITHOUT-RULES">
                         <tgroup cols="3">
                              <colspec colwidth="6.7cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="6.6cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="6.7cm" />
                              <tbody>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Australia</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Japan</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Philippines</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Brunei Darussalam</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Korea, Republic</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Russian Federation</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Canada</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Malaysia</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Singapore</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Chile</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Mexico</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                  Taiwan
                  <endnoteref idref="APEC.IO.360" ref-symbol="*" />
                                        </entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">China, People's</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">New Zealand</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Thailand</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">&#8195;Republic</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Papua New Guinea</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">USA</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Hong Kong</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Peru</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Viet Nam</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Indonesia</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   </row>
                              </tbody>
                         </tgroup>
                    </table>
                    <endnote id="APEC.IO.360" ref-symbol="*">Admitted as Chinese Taipei</endnote>
               </table-block-simple>
               <p id="APEC.IO.789">Note: APEC has three official observers: the Association of Southeast Asian Nations Secretariat; the Pacific Economic Cooperation Council; and the Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat. Observers may participate in APEC meetings and have full access to all related documents and information.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="APEC.IO.3" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <heading-note>April 2024</heading-note>
          <int-org-section id="APEC.IO.4" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Economic Leaders’ Meetings</heading>
               <p id="APEC.IO.364">An informal gathering of the leaders of the APEC economies, at which the policy objectives of the grouping are discussed and defined, is held after each annual Ministerial Meeting. The 30th Economic Leaders’ Meeting was convened in November 2023, in San Francisco, USA.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="APEC.IO.5" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Ministerial Meetings</heading>
               <p>APEC ministers responsible for foreign affairs and for economic affairs meet annually. Other meetings of ministers are held on a regular, structured basis to enhance co-operation in specific areas.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="APEC.IO.5.5" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Senior Officials’ Meeting (SOM)</heading>
               <p>The SOM convenes regu­larly between Ministerial Meetings to co-ordinate and administer the budgets and work programmes of APEC's committees and working groups. It is chaired by the member economy serving as the APEC host (2024: Peru).</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="APEC.IO.6" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Secretariat</heading>
               <p>A perm­anent secretariat to support APEC activities became operational in 1993. In 2007 a Policy Support Unit was established within the secretariat. An office of Chief of Staff, based at the secretariat and tasked with co-ordinating and assisting programmatic work, was created in November 2013. The Executive Director serves (renewable) three-year terms.</p>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="APEC.IO.368" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Executive Director</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Dr</title>
                                        <forename>Rebecca Fatima</forename>
                                        <surname>Sta Maria</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Malaysia</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="APEC.IO.7" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Committees</heading>
               <org-list>
                    <org-entry id="APEC.IO.369" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Budget and Management Committee (BMC)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>1993, present name adopted in 1998</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">advises APEC senior officials on budgetary, administrative and managerial issues, reviews the operational budgets and effectiveness of APEC committees and groups, approves project funding. APEC projects may be self-funded, or else financed through the General Project Account, the Trade and Investment Liberalisation and Facilitation Account, or (in the case of capacity-building programmes in developing economies) the APEC Support Fund</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="APEC.IO.370" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Committee on Trade and Investment (CTI)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>1993</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">facilitates the liberalization of trade and expansion of the flow of goods, services, technology and capital through the region</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">works to reduce impediments to business activity (guided by the 1995 Osaka Action Agenda) and to promote trade and investment (guided by the 2021 Aotearoa Plan of Action) in pursuit of the APEC Putrajaya Vision 2040</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">mem. economies’ progress is reported through Individual Action Plans and Collective Action Plans, compiled on a yearly basis</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">subsidiary groups cover Business Mobility, Digital Economy, Services, Intellectual Property Rights, Investment, Market Access, Customs Procedures, and Standards and Conformance. The CTI prioritizes support for the multilateral trading system; the advancement of regional economic integration; trade facilitation and strengthening connectivity and infrastructure; the promotion of innovative, inclusive development; and engagement with the business sector. The Committee oversees automotive and chemicals industry dialogues</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">meets 3 times a year</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="APEC.IO.371" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Economic Committee (EC)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>1994</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            aims to enhance APEC's capacity to analyse economic trends and to research and report on issues affecting economic and technical co-operation in the region. The EC has actively promoted efforts to implement regulatory reform in member economies, through projects including the APEC Ease of Doing Business (EoDB) initiative. The third periodic APEC Ministerial Meeting on Structural Reform, convened in a virtual format in June 2021, endorsed an Enhanced APEC Agenda for Structural Reform, to guide the org.’s work during 2021-25, with a focus on four pillars: creating an enabling environment for open, transparent, competitive markets; boosting post-pandemic business recovery and resilience; ensuring equal inclusive access to opportunities; and harnessing innovation, new technology, and skills development to advance productivity and digitalization; a third EoDB action plan was also endorsed at that time. Issues an annual 
            <publ-name>APEC Economic Policy Report</publ-name>
             (in 2023 this was issued in Nov. and addressed structural reform and fostering an enabling environment for inclusive, resilient and sustainable businesses)
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="APEC.IO.372" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>SOM Steering Committee on ECOTECH (SCE)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>1998 to assist the SOM with the co-ordination of APEC's economic and technical co-operation programme (ECOTECH); reconstituted in 2006, with an enhanced mandate to undertake greater co-ordination and oversee project proposals of the working groups</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">monitors and evaluates project implementation and also identifies initiatives designed to strengthen economic and technical co-operation in infrastructure</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in 2023 launched an APEC Bio-Circular-Green Award, to recognize contributions to the pursuit of sustainable and inclusive development</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
               </org-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="APEC.IO.8" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Advisory Council</heading>
               <org-list>
                    <org-entry id="APEC.IO.374" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>APEC Business Advisory Council</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>ABAC</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Units 1209-1210, Tower One and Exchange Plaza, Ayala Triangle, Ayala Ave, Makati City 1226, Philippines</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 8454564</telephone>
                              <email>abacsec@pfgc.ph</email>
                              <internet>www2.abaconline.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1995</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">comprising up to three senior representatives of the private sector from each APEC member economy, ABAC is mandated to advise members and APEC forums on business matters; it meets four times each year </content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            also convenes an annual closed-door dialogue with the APEC economic leaders, during which the annual 
            <publ-name>ABAC Report to Leaders</publ-name>
             is presented
          </content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">and organizes a CEO Summit, with participation by business executives, alongside the annual APEC Ministerial Meeting</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">`People. Business. Prosperity.’ was the theme of ABAC’s work prog. for 2024</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">ABAC has the following working groups: Economic Integration (focused in 2024 on Revitalizing the strategy towards FTAAP and regional trade architecture, Advancing digital trade and a new service agenda, Creating an enabling investment environment, and Modernizing tax systems in the era of the digital economy); Sustainable Growth (focused in 2024 on: Securing food sustainability and advancing responsible natural resource management; Fostering circular economy practices and effective waste management; Driving the shift to low-carbon economies and energy transition; and Enhancing natural disaster risk preparedness and building robust infrastructure); and Human Development (addressing in 2024: Strengthening pensions and healthcare systems; Boosting digital transformation for human and skills devt; and Advancing financial inclusion)</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Dir of ABAC Secretariat</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Antonio I.</forename>
                                        <surname>Basilio</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Philippines</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
               </org-list>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="APEC.IO.9" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Activities</heading>
          <p>APEC was initiated in 1989 as a forum for informal discussion between the then six Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) members and their six dialogue partners in the Pacific. The Seoul Declaration, adopted by ministers meeting in the Republic of Korea (South Korea) in November 1991, defined APEC’s objectives, which are focused on the following pillars: trade and investment liberalization; business facilitation; and economic and technical co-operation. In August 1991 it was agreed to extend membership to the People's Republic of China, Hong Kong and Taiwan (subject to conditions imposed by China, including that a Taiwan­ese official of no higher than vice-ministerial level should attend the annual meeting of ministers responsible for foreign affairs). Mexico and Papua New Guinea acceded to the organization in 1993, and Chile in 1994. Peru, the Russian Federation and Viet Nam were admitted in 1998.</p>
          <p id="APEC.IO.380">Meeting in Osaka, Japan, in November 1995, APEC heads of government adopted the Osaka Action Agenda. Part One identified action areas for the facilitation of business and liberalization of trade and investment; and Part Two provided a framework for further economic and technical co-operation between APEC members in specific sectoral areas. The following general principles to underpin APEC co-operation were identified: comprehensiveness; consistency with the WTO; comparability; non-discrimination; transparency; `standstill’ (i.e. APEC member economies should not implement protectionist measures); simultaneous start, continuous process and differentiated timetables; flexibility (i.e. taking into account differing levels of economic development); and active co-operation. (At that time long-term commitments and objectives were envisioned in the context of the Bogor Declaration—adopted by APEC Economic Leaders in November 1994—which included a series of `Bogor Goals’ to be implemented over the next 25 years.) At the 1997 APEC Economic Leader’s Meeting, held in Vancouver, Canada, in November, 15 economic sectors were identified for `early voluntary sectoral liberalization' (`EVSL').</p>
          <p id="APEC.IO.9.4">The 15th Economic Leader's Meeting, convened in Sydney, Australia, in September 2007, adopted a Declaration on Climate Change, Energy Security and Clean Development. The Declaration incorporated an Action Agenda and agreements to establish an Asia-Pacific Network for Energy Technology and an Asia-Pacific Network for Sustainable Forest Management and Rehabilitation, while committing to increase regional forest coverage. The Economic Leaders agreed to examine the options and prospects for the development of a Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific (FTAAP). The 16th Economic Leader's Meeting, held in November 2008, in Lima, Peru, addressed the implications for the region of the then deteriorating global economic situation, and determined to increase technical co-operation and capacity-building measures aimed at fostering the growth of the agricultural sector. Convened in November 2009, in Singapore, the 17th Economic Leader's Meeting expressed support for the goals of the G20 Framework for Strong, Sustainable and Balanced Growth (adopted in September), and adopted a Declaration on a New Growth Paradigm for a Connected Asia-Pacific in the 21st Century. The Meeting also endorsed the APEC Ease of Doing Business initiative, with a focus on improving processes for starting a business, dealing with permits, getting credit, trading across borders, and enforcing contracts.</p>
          <p usage="edio fea">In July 2012 APEC ministers responsible for the environment, meeting in Khab­arovsk, Russia, issued a Statement on Environment, outlining an updated framework for co-operation in addressing the conservation of biological diversity; the sustainable use of natural resources; the sustainable management of water resources and transboundary watercourses; transboundary air pollution and climate change; and support for green growth. In September the 20th Economic Leader's Meeting, convened in Vladivostok, Russia, endorsed an APEC List of Environmental Goods (comprising some 54 items on which tariffs were to be reduced to 5%) and welcomed the recent establishment of an APEC Policy Partnership on Science, Technology and Innovation. The 21st Economic Leader's Meeting, held in October 2013, in Bali, Indonesia, endorsed a Proposal on Capacity-Building Activities to Assist Implementation of APEC’s Environmental Goods Commitments, and established an APEC Public-Private Partnership on Environmental Goods and Services, representing a platform for enhanced dialogue in that area.</p>
          <p>Leaders attending the 22nd summit, convened in November 2014, in Beijing, China, adopted the Beijing Roadmap for APEC’s Contribution to the Realization of the FTAAP, and endorsed the establishment of an APEC Information Sharing Mechanism on Regional Trade Agreements/Free Trade Agreements. The Leaders’ Meeting approved an Action Agenda on Promoting Infrastructure Investment through Public-Private Partnership (PPP), the APEC Strategic Blueprint for Promoting Global Value Chain Development and Cooperation (covering 2015-25), an Accord on Innovative Development, Economic Reform and Growth, a regional Connectivity Blueprint (2015-25), and the establishment of an Asia-Pacific Urbanization Partnership. A Cebu Action Plan, intended as a roadmap towards a sustainable financial future for the Asia-Pacific region, was endorsed at the 23rd Economic Leaders’ Meeting, convened in November 2015, in Manila, Philippines. It comprised the following four pillars: promoting financial integration; advancing fiscal reforms and transparency; enhancing financial resilience; and accelerating infrastructure development and financing. The Leaders also adopted an APEC Services Cooperation Framework, and agreed an APEC Strategy for Strengthening Quality Growth, which emphasized greater co-operation in the areas of institution building, social cohesion, and environmental impact. The 2016 Leaders’ Meeting, hosted by Peru in November, in Lima, endorsed a Collective Strategic Study on Issues Related to the Realization of the FTAAP and endorsed an APEC Services Competitiveness Roadmap. </p>
          <p>The 25th Leaders’ Meeting, convened in Da Nang, Viet Nam, in November 2017, emphasized support for pursuing inclusive growth through the United Nations (UN) 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and pledged collectively to (i) promote innovative growth, inclusion and sustainable employment; (ii) create new drivers for regional economic integration; (iii) strengthen the capacity and innovation micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs); (iv) enhance food security and sustainable agriculture in response to climate change; and (v) foster a shared future. The leaders endorsed an APEC Internet and Digital Economy Roadmap, an APEC Framework on Cross-border E-commerce Facilitation, and an APEC Framework on Human Resources Development in the Digital Age. They also endorsed an APEC Action Agenda on Advancing Economic, Financial and Social Inclusion, and welcomed a Food Security and Climate Change Multi-Year Action Plan and an APEC Action Plan on Rural-Urban Development to Strengthen Food Security and Quality Growth.</p>
          <p>The 2018 gathering, hosted by Papua New Guinea, in its capital Port Moresby, in November, was notable for divisions between leading economies, in particular those arising from US-China tensions over international trade, as a result of which the APEC Leaders failed for the first time to agree a final collective formal statement. President Xi Jinping of China criticized the US Administration’s protectionist `America First’ trade policy, which violated the principle of resisting protectionism that underpins APEC co-operation. The then US Vice-President Mike Pence, meanwhile, alleged that China’s ongoing Belt and Road Initiative—launched in 2013 with the aim of developing infrastructure and trade along traditional routes between Asia, Europe and Africa—might potentially enslave participant countries in debt. During the summit the US Administration stated that it would develop a naval base jointly with Australia on Manus Island, PNG, reportedly to counter China's regional influence. In late October 2019 the Chilean President cancelled the forthcoming Economic Leaders’ Meeting, scheduled to be held in Santiago, owing to widespread civil unrest in that country.</p>
          <p>
      The 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-OTHER.DEV.43">Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for the Trans-Pacific Partnership</xr>
      —comprising as its founding members 11 APEC member states—entered into force on 30 December 2018 for Australia, Canada, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand and Singapore, and subsequently for Viet Nam, Peru, Malaysia, Chile and Brunei Darussalam.
    </p>
          <p>In July 2020 APEC trade ministers, meeting in a virtual format, issued a Declaration on Facilitating the Movement of Essential Goods During COVID-19. At the 27th Economic Leader's Meeting, hosted by Malaysia in November (but conducted virtually), leaders pledged to continue to collaborate to use all available policy tools to support a sustained, effective, inclusive response to the pandemic crisis. They resolved to minimize the impact of COVID-19 on livelihoods, and work towards the following priorities: improving the narrative of trade and investment; promoting inclusive economic partnership through digital economy and technology; and driving innovative sustainability. The leaders also adopted the APEC Putrajaya Vision 2040, a blueprint for charting the future of the Asia-Pacific region over the next two decades. The Vision focused on delivering a free, open, non-discriminatory, predictable trade and investment environment and affirmed support for the rules of the WTO in underpinning the multilateral trading system and promoting the stability of international trade flows. It aimed to advance the FTAAP agenda; to promote responsible business conduct, seamless connectivity and resilient supply chains; to promote the digital infrastructure and economy, and innovation; to ensure regional resilience to pandemics and other shocks and crises; and to support global efforts to address all environmental challenges.</p>
          <p>In June 2021 APEC ministers responsible for trade pledged to accelerate the cross-border flow of vaccines and related medical supplies required to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. Also in that month, the third APEC Structural Reform Ministerial Meeting initiated an Enhanced APEC Agenda for Structural Reform, which aimed to promote robust, sustainable and inclusive regional economic recovery. (As a result of the COVID-19 crisis, the overall APEC economy declined by an estimated 2% in 2020; growth recovered to an estimated 6.2% in 2021.) </p>
          <p>The 28th Economic Leaders’ Meeting, hosted by New Zealand in November 2021, in a virtual format, endorsed the Aotearoa Plan of Action to guide the APEC Putrajaya Vision 2040. The Plan—outlining national and collective actions addressing trade and investment; innovation and digitalization; sustainable and inclusive growth; and continuous improvement of APEC as an institution—was to be reviewed in 2026, 2031 and 2036. APEC’s 2022 Economic Leaders’ Meeting was held in Bangkok, Thailand, in November. Leaders reaffirmed previous commitments to balanced, inclusive and sustainable growth, and adopted the `Bangkok Goals’ to co-ordinate APEC’s sustainability objectives within a bio-circular-green economic framework. An FTAAP agenda Work Plan concluded at that time. Growth in the APEC region was estimated to have decelerated to 2.6% in that year, while the average rate of inflation in the region increased from 2.9% in 2021 to 5.9% in 2022. In May 2023 APEC ministers responsible for trade adopted Principles for the Interoperability of Electronic Invoicing Systems in the APEC Region, and APEC Non-Binding Guidelines on Services that Support the Clean-up of Marine Debris.</p>
          <p>The 30th Economic Leader’s Meeting, held in San Francisco, USA, in November 2023, issued the Golden Gate Declaration, which was focused on the theme `Creating a Resilient and Sustainable Future for All’. The joint declaration reiterated commitments to implementing previously agreed APEC plans of action, to upholding the principles of free and open trade and investment, and to harnessing new technologies to accelerate economic progress and to address environmental challenges. A document on San Francisco Principles on Integrating Inclusivity and Sustainability into Trade and Investment Policy was also approved by the meeting. Peru, the APEC Chair during 2024, identified the following as organizational priorities for that year: Trade and investment for inclusive and interconnected growth; Innovation and digitalization to promote transition to the formal and global economy; and Sustainable growth for resilient development. In March 2024 it was estimated that growth in the APEC region had increased by 3.5% in 2023.</p>
          <int-org-section id="APEC.IO.10" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Working Groups</heading>
               <p id="APEC.IO.388">APEC's structure of working groups aims to promote practical and technical co-operation in specific areas, and to help to implement individual and collective action plans in response to the directives of the Economic Leaders and meetings of relevant ministers.</p>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>
          Agricultural Technical Co-operation 
          <abbr>ATCWG</abbr>
                    </heading>
                    <p id="APEC.IO.389">Formally established as an APEC expert group in 1996, and incorporated into the system of working groups in 2000. The ATCWG aims to enhance the role of agriculture in the economic growth of the region and to promote co-operation in the following areas: conservation and utilization of plant and animal genetic resources; research, development and extension of agricultural biotechnology; processing, marketing, distribution and consumption of agricultural products; plant and animal quarantine and pest management; development of an agri­cultural finance system; sustainable agriculture; and agricultural technology transfer and training. The ATCWG has primary responsibility for undertaking recommendations connected with the implementation of the APEC Food System, which aims to improve the efficiency of food production, supply and trade within member economies. The Group has conducted projects and workshops on human resource development in post-harvest technology, capacity building, safety assessment, communication in biotechnology, biosecurity planning and pest management. An APEC High Level Policy Dialogue on Agricultural Biotechnology promotes investment, devises regulatory frameworks, facilitates technology transfers, and works to strengthen public confidence in biotechnology, with a view to promoting food security and trade. </p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>
          Anti-Corruption and Transparency Working Group
          <abbr>ACT</abbr>
                    </heading>
                    <p>The ACT (originally established as a task force in 2004) was upgraded to a working group in March 2011. It co-ordinates the implementation of APEC’s Transparency Standards (2002), Santiago Commitment to Fight Corruption and Ensure Transparency (2004) and Course of Action on Fighting Corruption (2004). In June 2007 the former task force approved a Code of Conduct for Business, in collaboration with ABAC, a set of Conduct Principles for Public Officials, and Anti-corruption Principles for the Public and Private Sectors. The inaugural meeting of a Beijing-based APEC Network of Anti-Corruption Authorities and Law Enforcement Agencies (ACT-NET) was convened in August 2014. The ACT-NET secretariat was mandated to manage information sharing between member states aimed at preventing corruption. In August 2016 the ACT met to consider policy measures aimed at closing loopholes in governance that facilitate illegal land development, logging, fishing and mining. In February 2019 the ACT organized a workshop that explored digital governance, integrity policies and corruption prevention mechanisms. A symposium on developing gender sensitivity training to enhance women’s empowerment in fighting corruption was held in April 2021. An ACT workshop on promoting APEC Principles on the Prevention of Bribery and Enforcement of Anti-Bribery Laws was held in February 2023.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>
          Counter Terrorism Working Group
          <abbr>CTWG</abbr>
                    </heading>
                    <p>The CTWG succeeded in 2013 the former Counter Terrorism Task Force. Focal areas include secure travel (covering bus security training; and developing regional trusted traveller and advance passenger information—API and passenger name record—PNR systems); secure finance (protecting designated non-financial businesses and professions from terrorist financing); secure supply chains; secure infrastructure; and the Secure Trade in the APEC Region (STAR) initiative-which brings together senior APEC officials and representatives of the private sector to enhance security at major transport centres and in all aspects of the supply chain. A CTWG Strategic Plan for the period 2018-22 had the following areas of focus: implementing the APEC Consolidated Counter-Terrorism and Secure Trade Strategy (adopted in 2011); increasing co-operation within the APEC organizational framework; strengthening co-operation within member economies to address: (i) impacts of evolving terrorist threats, as well as the challenges posed by foreign terrorist fighters, and (ii) the economic impacts of radicalization to violent extremism, with a view to promoting the resilience and security of businesses and communities; enhancing member economies’ capacity to disrupt the flow of foreign terrorist fighters without obstructing normal international travel, and promoting exchange of information between special and law enforcement agencies; enhancing API and PNR schemes; countering terrorist financing; improving the resilience and security of critical infrastructure; strengthening counter-terrorism related co-operation with multilateral agencies and with the private sector; and fostering relevant whole-of-government approaches within APEC economies, and with relevant APEC sub-forums.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>
          Emergency Preparedness 
          <abbr>EPWG</abbr>
                    </heading>
                    <p>Established in March 2005, as a special task force, in response to the devastating natural disaster that had occurred in the Indian Ocean in December 2004; upgraded to a working group in 2010. The EPWG is mandated to co-ordinate efforts throughout APEC to enhance disaster management capacity building, to strengthen public awareness regarding natural disaster preparedness, prevention and survival, and to compile best practices. In September 2015 APEC Senior Disaster Management Officials finalized an APEC Framework on Disaster Risk Reduction, which was to guide relevant policy co-ordination within and between member states. The 12th APEC Senior Disaster Management Officials Forum, convened in Kokopo, PNG, in September 2018, prioritized the development of digital real-time disaster early warning systems. The 13th Forum, held in Puerto Varas, Chile, in August 2019, gave consideration to disaster response, preparedness and mitigation systems across the globe. Agricultural resilience measures being implemented by APEC member economies have aimed to safeguard food production and supply chains against the escalating threat of such disasters. During 2020 the EPWG facilitated a Voluntary Sharing of Practices in Responding to COVID-19. The 14th APEC Senior Disaster Management Officials Forum was held in a virtual format, in May 2021. The EPWG’s Strategic Plan for 2021-24 emphasized that most APEC economies are located on the seismically active Pacific `Ring of Fire’, at risk of volcanic eruptions, earthquakes and tsunamis, and also exposed to tropical cyclones and to El Niño/La Niña phenomena. The plan had four priorities: enhancing regional capacity; promoting innovative partnerships; supporting recovery processes; and facilitating sharing of information and expertise.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>
          Energy 
          <abbr>EWG</abbr>
                    </heading>
                    <p id="APEC.IO.390">The main objectives of the EWG, established in 1990, are: the enhancement of regional energy security and improvement of the fuel supply market for the power sector; the development and implementation of programmes of work promoting the adoption of environmentally sound energy technologies and promoting private sector investment in regional power infra­structure; the development of energy efficiency guidelines; and the standardization of testing facilities and results. The EWG is supported by four expert groups, on clean fossil energy, efficiency and conservation, energy data and analysis, and new and renewable energy technologies; and by two task forces, on energy resilience, and on Low Carbon Model Towns (LCMTs). The Group nominated Tianjin Yujiapu, China (in 2011); Samui Island, Thailand (2012); Da Nang, Viet Nam (2013); Bitung, Indonesia (2014); San Borja, Peru (2015); Mandaue, Philippines (2017); and Krasnoyarsk, Russia (2018) as case studies for APEC’s ongoing LCMT project. Meeting in May 2007 in Darwin, Australia, ministers responsible for energy directed the EWG to formulate a voluntary Energy Peer Review Mechanism. The ministers welcomed the work of the Asia-Pacific Partnership on Clean Development and Climate, launched in January 2006 by Australia, China, India, Japan, South Korea and the USA. The Asia Pacific Energy Research Centre (APERC), established in July 1996 in Tokyo, Japan, undertakes energy development programmes and maintains a comprehensive regional Energy Database. Meeting in Kaohsiung, Taiwan, in October 2011, the EWG set a target to reduce APEC regional energy intensity by 45% by 2035; this was endorsed by the November 2011 Leaders’ Meeting. An APEC Climate Center was established in 2005, in Busan, South Korea, and in 2015 an APEC Sustainable Energy Center was inaugurated at Tianjin University, China. An APEC Energy Ministerial Meeting (the first such meeting since 2015) was convened in August 2023, in Seattle, USA. It tasked the EWG with establishing a Just Energy Transition Initiative, and endorsed a set of Non-Binding Just Energy Transition Principles for APEC Cooperation.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>
          Health 
          <abbr>HWG</abbr>
                    </heading>
                    <p>
          The HWG (replacing a previous Health Task Force that had been established in 2003) convened for its first official meeting in February 2008. Meeting in June 2010, it identified the following priority areas: enhancing preparedness for combating vector-borne diseases, including avian and human pandemic influenza, and HIV/AIDS; capacity building in the areas of health promotion and prevention of lifestyle-related diseases; improving health outcomes through advances in health information technologies; and strengthening health systems in each member economy. In July 2013 an inaugural HWG/Life Sciences Innovation Forum (LSIF) Roundtable Dialogue on Traditional Medicines, HWG/LSIF Dialogue on Mental Health, and HWG/LSIF Joint Dialogue on Healthcare-Associated Infections were convened. HWG/LSIF meetings are held annually. In August 2021 the LSIF launched a vaccine strategy that aimed to enhance, by 2030, the resilience of the region’s COVID-19 and other immunization programmes. China contributed US&#8201;$1m. at that time towards a new APEC sub-fund aimed at combating COVID-19 and promoting economic recovery in the region. In early 2022 new Voluntary Principles for the Interoperability of Vaccination Certificates in the APEC Region were finalized. The 13th annual APEC High-Level Meeting on Health and the Economy, hosted by the USA in August 2023, in Seattle, addressed strengthening health systems for pandemic prevention, preparedness and response. In December—in the context of a Smart Families initiative launched in 2022 with a focus on addressing drivers of demographic trends and their associated economic challenges—the HWG introduced an 
          <publ-name>APEC Smart Families Menu of Policy Options for Demographic Resilience</publ-name>
          . In February 2024 the HWG issued a study that addressed the use of telemedicine to promote health equity in the post-pandemic era, and the digital health landscape of economies.
        </p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>
          Human Resources Development 
          <abbr>HRDWG</abbr>
                    </heading>
                    <p id="APEC.IO.392">Established in 1990; comprises three networks: the Capacity Building Network, with a focus on human capacity building, including management and technical skills development and corporate governance; the Education Network, promoting effective learning systems and supporting the role of education in advancing individual, social and economic development; and the Labour and Social Protection Network, concerned with promoting social integration through the strengthening of labour markets, the development of labour market information and policy, and improvements in working conditions and social safety net frameworks. The HRDWG co-ordinates the regular APEC Education Ministerial Meeting. The sixth Meeting, convened in October 2016, in Lima, endorsed the APEC Education Strategy, which aimed to promote inclusive quality education across APEC economies by 2030, with a focus on developing competencies, innovation and employability. An APEC Framework on Human Resources Development in the Digital Age was initiated in 2017. In May 2019 the HRDWG established a co-ordinating mechanism on disability issues. In May 2022 the HRDWG met to address strategies and policy actions aimed at strengthening digital and environment-related education and training. HRDWG Detroit Non-Binding Principles and Recommendations for Equality and Inclusion in Education, Training, and Employment were adopted in July 2023. A voluntary network of more than 70 APEC study centres links higher education and research institutions in member economies. An annual APEC Study Centers Consortium Conference is organized. An APEC Higher Education Research Center, with a secretariat hosted by Beijing Normal University, commenced operations in 2016. An Institute of APEC Collaborative Education is based in Daegu, South Korea.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>
          Oceans and Fisheries 
          <abbr>OFWG</abbr>
                    </heading>
                    <p id="APEC.IO.391">
          The OFWG, formed in 2011, promotes initiatives within APEC to protect the marine environment and its resources, and to maximize the economic benefits and sustain­ability of fisheries resources for all APEC members. Nine of the 10 leading global fish producers are APEC economies. The OFWG is tasked with implementing the October 2010 Paracas Declaration on Healthy Oceans and Fisheries Management Towards Food Security, focused on the sustainable development and protection of the marine environment. An APEC ministerial meeting on oceans held in Xiamen, China, in August 2014, issued the Xiamen Declaration, detailing a new regional framework that aimed to provide an integrated approach to addressing ocean-related challenges. A second 
          <i>APEC Marine Sustainable Development Report</i>
           was issued in December 2019 (the first having been released in 2014). The sixth APEC Blue Economy Forum was hosted from Xiamen, China, in November 2021, in a virtual format. The 22nd APEC Roundtable Meeting on the Involvement of the Business/Private Sector in the Sustainability of the Marine Environment was hosted by Taiwan, in September 2023, likewise in a virtual format. OFWG priorities include investigating the origin and distribution of microplastics in the marine APEC region (an APEC Roadmap on Marine Debris, conceived of as a `living document’, has been developed); promoting the formulation and implementation of national action plans on IUU fishing in the region; and developing a best practice global value chain framework on MSMEs in the fisheries sector. An APEC Marine Sustainable Development Center is located in Xiamen.
        </p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>
          Small and Medium Enterprises 
          <abbr>SMEWG</abbr>
                    </heading>
                    <p id="APEC.IO.395">The SMEWG was established in 2000. Meeting in September 2015 APEC ministers responsible for SMEs adopted the APEC Iloilo Initiative: Growing Global MSMEs for Inclusive Development. APEC initiated an MSME Marketplace in September 2017, representing a platform for generating opportunities and facilitating cross-border trade among MSMEs, including through the use of digital technologies. In September 2020 the 26th APEC SME Ministerial Meeting, held in a virtual format, noted the unprecedented impacts of the COVID-19 crisis on businesses, recognizing the particularly adverse economic and social effects of the pandemic on women and women-owned MSMEs, and acknowledged ongoing unprecedented levels of fiscal stimulus initiatives. The Meeting determined to continue to pursue the Boracay Action Agenda to Globalize MSMEs—adopted by APEC Economic Leaders in 2015 as a framework to support the participation of MSMEs in international trade, by means of capacity building initiatives, enhancing opportunities, and facilitating participation in global value chains. The 11th APEC SME Technology Conference and Fair was convened in April 2022, in Xi'an, Shaanxi, China. In June an APEC Online Dispute Resolution Collaborative Framework for Cross-Border Business to Business Disputes was initiated. In September the 2022 edition of the annual APEC Business Ethics for SMEs Forum took place, in Bangkok, to complement its ongoing Business Ethics for APEC SMEs Initiative: Vision 2025. A study on the adoption of e-commerce by SMEs in seven APEC member economies (Chile, Hong Kong, Mexico, Peru, Singapore, Taiwan and Viet Nam) was issued in January 2024. During 2020-25 an APEC Strategic Blueprint for Promoting Global Value Chains was being implemented.</p>
                    <!--Electronic Commerce Steering Group-->
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>
          Telecommunications and Information 
          <abbr>TEL</abbr>
                    </heading>
                    <p id="APEC.IO.396">Incorporates three steering groups concerned with different aspects of the development and liberalization of the sector—liberalization; ICT development; and security and prosperity. Activities are guided by directives of ministers responsible for telecommunications, who first met in 1995, in South Korea, and adopted a Seoul Declaration on Asia Pacific Information Infrastructure (APII). In June 1998 ministers agreed to remove technical barriers to trade in telecommunications equipment (although Chile and New Zealand declined to sign up to the arrangement). In May 2000 ministers adopted the APEC Principles of Interconnection. The fifth ministerial meeting, held in May 2002, issued a Statement on the Security of Information and Communications Infrastructures; a compendium of ICT security standards has been disseminated in support of the Statement. A Mutual Recognition Arrangement Task Force (under the Liberalization steering group) implements a mutual recognition arrangement for conformity assessment of telecommunications equipment. In November 2004 an APEC Privacy Framework was adopted, focused on nine principles aimed at safeguarding the privacy of personal information in APEC economies. A voluntary APEC Cross-Border Privacy Rules System was established in 2011, with the aim of promoting APEC-wide compatibility in privacy policies, lower regulatory compliance costs, and consumer protection. APEC’s ICT Development Steering Group works to expand broadband networks and advanced internet technologies in the APEC region. TEL helped to draft the 2017 APEC Internet and Digital Economy Roadmap, and was to support activities connected with digitalization and innovation, in the framework of Putrajaya Vision 2040. In October 2020 an APEC TEL Initiative on Global Challenges and Cooperation Utilizing ICT: COVID-19 Pandemic and Beyond was launched.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>
          Tourism 
          <abbr>TWG</abbr>
                    </heading>
                    <p id="APEC.IO.397">
          The TWG, created in 1991, administers the APEC International Centre for Sustainable Tourism, established under its auspices in 2002. The first meeting of APEC ministers responsible for tourism, held in South Korea in July 2000, adopted the Seoul Declaration on the APEC Tourism Charter. The TWG's work plan is based on four policy goals inherent in the Seoul Declaration: the removal of impediments to tourism business and investment; increased mobility of visitors and increased demand for tourism goods and services; sustainable management of tourism; and enhanced recognition of tourism as a vehicle for economic and social development. In April 2001 APEC and the Pacific Asia Travel Association (PATA) adopted a Code for Sustainable Tourism, which urges members to conserve the natural environment, ecosystems and biodiversity; to respect local traditions and cultures; to conserve energy; to reduce pollution and waste; and to ensure that regular environmental audits are carried out. The eighth meeting of APEC tourism ministers, held in September 2014, in Macau, adopted the Macau Declaration, outlining a series of measures aimed at adapting the regional travel and leisure sector to new technological advances and consumer trends; these included the promotion of smart digital technologies in tourism management, and developing sustainable, low carbon tourism destinations. In May 2020 the TWG held a special meeting, in a virtual format, to consider the devastating impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the travel and tourism sectors; the member economies determined to promote collaboration between all industry stakeholders in order to support a resilient recovery. The TWG’s strategic plan for 2020-24 addressed sustainable tourism and economic growth; digital transformation; human capital development; and travel facilitation and competitiveness. The TWG issued a 
          <publ-name>Handbook on Developing Community-Based Entrepreneurship in Rural Tourism</publ-name>
           in February 2022. In August the 11th meeting of APEC tourism ministers, held in Bangkok, endorsed 
          <publ-name>Updated APEC Guidelines for Tourism Stakeholders</publ-name>
           and 
          <publ-name>Policy Recommendations for Tourism of the Future: Regenerative Tourism</publ-name>
          . The TWG publishes an intermittent 
          <publ-name>State of APEC Tourism Report</publ-name>
          .
        </p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>
          Transportation 
          <abbr>TPTWG</abbr>
                    </heading>
                    <p id="APEC.IO.399">Focuses on three main areas: improving the competitiveness of the transportation industry; promoting a safe and environmentally sound regional transportation system; and human resources development, including training, research and education. The first APEC Joint Transportation and Energy Ministerial Conference, convened in September 2011, in San Francisco, USA, adopted an Action Agenda to move APEC toward an Energy Efficient, Sustainable, Low-Carbon Transport Future. The ninth APEC Transportation Ministerial Meeting, convened in Cebu, in October 2015, endorsed a framework for women's inclusion in the transportation sector. The 11th Transportation Ministerial Meeting, held in May 2023, in Detroit, USA, directed the TPTWG to place a special focus on supply chains and connectivity; climate; inclusivity and gender equality; and innovation. An APEC green maritime initiative, focused on the development of cleaner maritime technologies and practices, was launched on the sidelines of the meeting. The TPTWG comprises the Aviation Experts Group; Intermodal/Intelligent Transport Systems Experts Group; Land Experts Group; and Maritime Experts Group (which has two affiliates: the APEC Seafarers Excellence Network and the APEC Port Services Network). During 2022-25 the TPTWG was guided by the following terms of reference: Trade and investment and road to a COVID recovery; Inclusive and sustainable transport; and Embracing technology and innovation. The Group’s work plan for 2020-24 focused on Digital transformation; Human capital development; Travel facilitation and competitiveness; and Sustainable tourism and economic growth.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-APEC.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Other Groups and Initiatives</heading>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>APEC Travel Facilitation Initiative</heading>
                    <p>Endorsed by the APEC Economic Leaders in 2011, the initiative comprises an Airport Partnership Program; a Trusted Traveller Program; Air passenger security screening; Advance passenger information (API); Checked baggage facilitation; and the APEC Business Travel Card (ABTC) scheme, inaugurated in 1999. ABTC holders receive fast-track immigration processing and multiple short term-entry entitlements to participating economies. By 2024 19 APEC economies were participating fully in the scheme, and two—Canada and the USA—were transitional members. Visa restrictions imposed with a view to containing the COVID-19 pandemic were reflected in the application of the scheme from 2020. On 1 March 2021 Australia became the first ABTC state to offer a digital `virtual ABTC’. The Business Mobility Group, CWTG, TPTWG and TWG participate in the initiative. An APEC Safe Passage Taskforce was inaugurated in January 2022, with a focus on advancing the recovery cross-border travel.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>
          Competition Policy and Law Group 
          <abbr>CPLG</abbr>
                    </heading>
                    <p>Established in 1996 (present name adopted in 2008) to promote market discipline, economic efficiency, and understanding of regional competition laws and policies. The Group, comprising representatives of agencies concerned with competition policy or law enforcement in member economies, meets annually. APEC Principles to Enhance Competition and Regulatory Reform were adopted in 1999. The CPLG maintains an online Competition and Law Database. </p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>
          Digital Economy Steering Group 
          <abbr>DESG</abbr>
                    </heading>
                    <p>Established in 2018, the DESG implements the 2018 APEC Action Agenda for the Digital Economy, based on an APEC Internet and Digital Economy Roadmap that was endorsed by the APEC Economic Leaders in November 2017. Aims to facilitate the advancement of the digital economy, including digital trade and e-commerce.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>
          Experts Group on Illegal Logging and Associated Trade 
          <abbr>EGILAT</abbr>
                    </heading>
                    <p>The group, inaugurated in 2012, aims to promote trade in legally harvested forest products from the APEC region; to act as a policy platform on combating illegal logging and associated trade; and to promote activities aimed at building capacity in the regional forestry sector (which accounts for some 80% of global trade in forest products, according to FAO). The first meeting of APEC ministers responsible for forestry was convened in September 2011; an Asia-Pacific Network for Sustainable Forest Management and Rehabilitation (APFNet) was inaugurated at that time. In August 2013 APEC ministers responsible for forestry issued the Cusco Statement, which listed 17 aspirations aimed at addressing ongoing challenges related to green growth and to sustainable development. An APEC Cooperation Network on Green Supply Chain centre was established in 2014, in Tianjin, China. A Timber Legality Guidance Template, drafted by EGILAT, was endorsed by APEC senior officials in August 2016. The fifth meeting of APEC ministers responsible for forestry, convened in Chiang Mai (Thailand) in August 2022, noted that, following a relevant commitment made by the September 2007 APEC Leaders’ Meeting, the region’s forest cover had increased by 27.9m. ha during the period 2007-20. The ministers determined to intensify efforts to combat illegal logging, to strengthen co-operation on sustainable forestry management, and to continue to reverse forest loss, as well as to expand green zones in urban and suburban areas. During 2023-27 EGILAT was pursuing a strategic plan under which further country-specific Timber Legality Guidance Template (TLGTs) were to be developed.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>
          Finance Ministers Process 
          <abbr>FMP</abbr>
                    </heading>
                    <p>The FMP focuses on the following strategic objectives: regionwide macroeconomic stability; the implementation of sound policies to underpin sustainable, inclusive development; good corporate governance; prudent public finances management; enhanced economic co-operation, openness and integration; the achievement of stable and efficient financial markets; and facilitation of economic and technical co-operation. An annual APEC Finance Ministers Meeting (FMM) has been convened since 1994. The FMM’s agenda is informed by a prior meeting of senior finance and central bank officials. Areas of focus include the digital economy, financial inclusion, and advances in financial technology (`fintech’) in APEC economies. An Asia-Pacific Finance and Development Institute is based in Shanghai, China.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>
          Mining Task Force 
          <abbr>MTF</abbr>
                    </heading>
                    <p>
          The Task Force was established in 2008 to provide a unified, cohesive mining, minerals and metals forum for APEC member economies. Further to the ninth MTF meeting, held in August 2015, in Cebu, APEC established a mining sub-fund to support mining development projects and collaboration with the private sector. Meeting in August 2018, in Port Moresby, APEC ministers noted a new climate of uncertainty in the mining sector, prompted by a recent increase in the imposition by some countries of protectionist tariffs, and issued a statement in which they emphasized the opportunities offered within the sector by new technologies, and the importance of innovation-focused investment and development. MTF projects include: developing training materials to promote the reduction of mercury use in artisanal and small-scale gold mining; improving productivity and data to attract investment; developing mining equipment, technology and the services sector; preparing a mine closure checklist for governments; and promoting inclusive mining, focused on developing a consultation model for liaising with, 
          <i>inter alia</i>
          , Indigenous communities and women.
        </p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>
          Policy Partnership on Food Security 
          <abbr>PPFS</abbr>
                    </heading>
                    <p>Established in 2011 to strengthen public-private co-operation on addressing regional food security challenges. An internet-based Asia-Pacific Food Security Information Platform was also launched in 2011. In May 2016 the PPFS determined to set up a Singapore-based Centre for Sustainable Development in Agriculture and Fishery Sectors (this was inaugurated in November). In August 2021 the sixth APEC Ministerial Meeting on Food Security welcomed a newly developed APEC Food Security Roadmap Towards 2030, emphasizing its focus on digitalization, innovation, productivity, sustainability and inclusivity. In August 2022 the seventh Ministerial Meeting, held in Prachuap Khiri Khan, Thailand, endorsed an implementation plan for the Roadmap.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>
          Policy Partnership on Science, Technology and Innovation
          <abbr>PPSTI</abbr>
                    </heading>
                    <p id="APEC.IO.393">Established in 2012, replacing the former Working Group on Industrial Science and Technology (ISTWG). The PPSTI aims to strengthen collaboration in the areas of science, research, technology and innovation; to enhance member economies’ innovative capacities; to help to build human capacity and develop infrastructure to support the commercialization of ideas; and to develop policy frameworks and foster an enabling environment for innovation. In September 2012 the 20th Economic Leader's Meeting urged ABAC to nominate private sector representatives to the PPSTI, and to participate in the activities of the Partnership. Innovation Policy Dialogues were to be conducted through the PPSTI. The former ISTWG helped to establish an APEC Virtual Centre for Environmental Technology Exchange in Japan; and an APEC Centre for Technology Foresight, based in Thailand. An Innovation Technology Dialogue on Nanotechnologies for Energy Efficiency was held in May 2012, in Kazan, Russia. In 2015 the PPSTI supported the organization of the first APEC High-Level Policy Dialogue on Science and Technology in Higher Education, held in Manila, in August. A PPSTI Strategic Plan covering the period 2016-25 was endorsed in that month, through which the Partnership aimed to strengthen synergies between governments, academia and industry. An annual APEC Science Prize for Innovation, Research and Education (`ASPIRE’) is awarded to young scientists.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Policy Partnership on Women and the Economy (PPWE)</heading>
                    <p id="APEC.IO.502">Established in May 2011 as a public-private mechanism to integrate gender considerations into APEC activities, replacing the former Gender Focal Point Network. At the inaugural meeting of the PPWE, hosted by the USA in September, in San Francisco, member states addressed four policy areas regarded as key to increasing economic participation by women: access to capital; access to markets; capacity and skills building; and women’s leadership. The meeting also adopted terms of reference and endorsed the San Francisco Declaration on Women and the Economy, urging APEC member states to take concrete actions to realize the full potential of women and integrate them more fully into APEC economies. In 2016 an APEC Women in STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) initiative was launched, with the aim of increasing the representation of women in STEM educational courses and careers. An APEC Women and the Economy Fund was established in November 2017. In 2019 an APEC Healthy Women, Healthy Economies Research Prize was inaugurated. The PPWE was tasked with developing an implementation plan for the APEC La Serena Roadmap for Women and Inclusive Growth, which was to advance women’s economic integration in the region during the period 2019-30. An APEC Women and the Economy Dashboard initiative, introduced in 2015, has aimed to assess the status of women in APEC economies, using a series of indicators related to (as recommended by the PPWE): access to capital and assets; access to markets; skills, capacity building and health; leadership, voice and agency; innovation and technology; and (introduced in an update in September 2021) digitalization. The 2023 APEC Women and the Economy Forum, held in August, in Seattle (USA), addressed the following themes: Advancing Women’s Leadership in the Gender-Climate Nexus; Increasing Equity and Equality in Global Value Chains; Expanding Digital and STEM Inclusion and Innovation;and Strengthening Care Infrastructure.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="APEC.IO.11" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Publications</heading>
          <publ-list>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>APEC in Charts</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">annually</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>APEC Economic Policy Report</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">annually</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>APEC Energy Demand and Supply Outlook</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">every three to four years</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>APEC Outcomes and Outlook</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>CTI Report to Ministers</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">annually</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
          </publ-list>
          <p id="APEC.IO.400">Working group reports, regional directories, other studies.</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="APEC.IO.15" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="edio">
          <heading>Seoul Declaration</heading>
          <heading-note>14 November 1991</heading-note>
          <legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>OBJECTIVES</heading>
                    <p id="APEC.IO.401">Representatives of Australia, Brunei Darussalam, Canada, the People's Republic of China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Malaysia, New Zealand, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand and the USA, meeting in Seoul, the Republic of Korea, from 12 to 14 November 1991 at ministerial level,</p>
                    <gen-list>
                         <item>
                              <p id="APEC.IO.402">Recognizing that the dynamic growth of economies in the Asia-Pacific region has brought with it growing economic interdependence and strong common interests in maintaining the region's economic dynamism</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="APEC.IO.403">Conscious of the vital interests shared by the Asia-Pacific economies in the expansion of free trade and investment, both at the regional and global level, and of the dangers inherent in protectionism</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="APEC.IO.404">Recognizing that the healthy and balanced development of eco­nomic interdependence within the Asia-Pacific region based upon openness and a spirit of partnership is essential for the prosperity, stability and progress of the entire region</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="APEC.IO.405">Convinced that closer co-operation is needed to utilize more effectively human and natural resources of the Asia-Pacific region so as to attain sustainable growth of its economies, while reducing economic disparities among them, and improve the economic and social well-being of its peoples</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="APEC.IO.406">Recalling the productive outcome of their two previous meetings held in Canberra, Australia, during 5-7 November 1989 and in Singapore, during 29-31 July 1990, the basic principles for Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation which emerged therefrom, and the process of consultations and co-operation evolving among the participating Asia-Pacific economies</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="APEC.IO.407">Acknowledging the important contribution made by the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and the pioneering role played by the Pacific Economic Cooperation Conference (PECC) in fostering closer regional links and dialogue</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="APEC.IO.408">Recognizing the important role played by the GATT in fostering a healthy and open multilateral trading system, in reducing barriers to trade and in eliminating discriminatory treatment in international commerce</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="APEC.IO.409">Believing that Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation should serve as an exemplary model of open regional co-operation</p>
                         </item>
                    </gen-list>
                    <p id="APEC.IO.410">Do hereby declare as follows:</p>
                    <gen-list>
                         <label>1.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="APEC.IO.411">The objectives of Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (hereinafter referred to as APEC) will be:</p>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>(a)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="APEC.IO.412">to sustain the growth and development of the region for the common good of its peoples and, in this way, to contribute to the growth and development of the world economy;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(b)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="APEC.IO.413">to enhance the positive gains, both for the region and the world economy, resulting from increasing economic interde­pendence, including by encouraging the flow of goods, services, capital and technology;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(c)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="APEC.IO.414">to develop and strengthen the open multilateral trading system in the interest of Asia-Pacific and all other economies;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(d)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="APEC.IO.415">to reduce barriers to trade in goods and services and investment among participants in a manner consistent with GATT principles, where applicable, and without detriment to other economies.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </item>
                    </gen-list>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>SCOPE OF ACTIVITY</heading>
                    <gen-list>
                         <label>2.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="APEC.IO.416">APEC will focus on those economic areas where there is scope to advance common interests and achieve mutual benefits, including through:</p>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>(a)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="APEC.IO.417">exchange of information and consultation on policies and developments relevant to the common efforts of APEC economies to sustain growth, promote adjustment and reduce economic disparities;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(b)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="APEC.IO.418">development of strategies to reduce impediments to the flow of goods and services and investment worldwide and within the region;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(c)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="APEC.IO.419">promotion of regional trade, investment, financial resource flows, human resources development, technology transfer, industrial co-operation and infrastructure development;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(d)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="APEC.IO.420">co-operation in specific sectors such as energy, environment, fisheries, tourism, transportation and telecommunications.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </item>
                         <label>3.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="APEC.IO.421">In each of these fields, APEC will seek:</p>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>(a)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="APEC.IO.422">to improve the identification and definition of the region's common interests and where appropriate, to project these interests in multilateral forums such as the GATT;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(b)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="APEC.IO.423">to improve the understanding of the policy concerns, interests and experiences of economic partners, particularly of their international implications, and to help promote consistency in policy-making in appropriate areas;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(c)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="APEC.IO.424">to develop practical programmes of economic co-operation to contribute to economic dynamism and improved living standards throughout the region;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(d)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="APEC.IO.425">to enhance and promote the role of the private sector and the application of free market principles in maximizing the benefits of regional co-operation.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </item>
                    </gen-list>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>MODE OF OPERATION</heading>
                    <gen-list>
                         <label>4.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="APEC.IO.426">Co-operation will be based on:</p>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>(a)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="APEC.IO.427">the principle of mutual benefit, taking into account differences in the stages of economic development and in the socio-political systems, and giving due consideration to the needs of developing economies; and</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(b)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="APEC.IO.428">a commitment to open dialogue and consensus-building, with equal respect for the views of all participants.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </item>
                         <label>5.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="APEC.IO.429">APEC will operate through a process of consultation and exchange of views among high-level representatives of APEC economies, drawing upon research, analysis and policy ideas contributed by participating economies and other relevant organizations including the ASEAN and the South Pacific Forum (SPF) Secretariats and the PECC.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>6.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="APEC.IO.430">Recognizing the important contribution of the private sector to the dynamism of APEC economies, APEC welcomes and encourages active private sector participation in appropriate APEC activities.</p>
                         </item>
                    </gen-list>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>PARTICIPATION</heading>
                    <gen-list>
                         <label>7.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="APEC.IO.431">Participation in APEC will be open, in principle, to those economies in the Asia-Pacific region which:</p>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>(a)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="APEC.IO.432">have strong economic linkages in the Asia-Pacific region; and</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(b)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="APEC.IO.433">accept the objectives and principles of APEC as embodied in this Declaration.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </item>
                         <label>8.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="APEC.IO.434">Decisions regarding future participation in APEC will be made on the basis of a consensus of all existing participants.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>9.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="APEC.IO.435">Non-participant economies or organizations may be invited to the meetings of APEC upon such terms and conditions as may be determined by all existing participants.</p>
                         </item>
                    </gen-list>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>ORGANIZATION</heading>
                    <gen-list>
                         <label>10.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="APEC.IO.436">A ministerial meeting of APEC participants will be held annually to determine the direction and nature of APEC activities within the framework of this Declaration and decide on arrangements for implementation. Participants who wish to host ministerial meetings will have the opportunity to do so, with the host in each case providing the chairman of the meeting.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>11.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="APEC.IO.437">Additional ministerial meetings may be convened as necessary to deal with specific issues of common interest.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>12.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="APEC.IO.438">Responsibility for developing the APEC process in accord with the decisions of the ministerial meetings and the work programme determined at those meetings will lie with a senior officials' meeting of representatives from each participant. The senior officials' meeting will be chaired by a representative of the host of the subsequent annual ministerial meeting, and will make necessary preparations for that meeting.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>13.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="APEC.IO.439">Each project on the work programme will be pursued by a working group composed of representatives from participants, co-ordinated by one or more participants. The working groups will identify specific areas of co-operation and policy options relating to each project.</p>
                         </item>
                    </gen-list>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>THE FUTURE OF APEC</heading>
                    <p id="APEC.IO.440">14. Recognizing the ongoing and dynamic nature of the APEC process, APEC will retain the flexibility to evolve in line with the changes in regional economic circumstances and the global economic environment, and in response to the economic policy challenges facing the Asia-Pacific region.</p>
               </legal-block>
          </legal-block>
     </int-org-section>
</int-org-entry>