<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="BSEC.IO" id-root="bsec.io" iso="bsec.io" original-filename="gans93aj.txt" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee eerca"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation</org-entry-name>
               <abbr>BSEC</abbr>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">MAJOR NON-UN ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee eerca">REGIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb edio casee eerca">BSEC</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>Darüşşafaka Cad., Seba Center İş Merkezi, 45 Kat 3, 34460 Istinye, SarIyer-İstanbul, Türkiye</verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <telephone alsofax="N">(212) 229-63-30</telephone>
               <fax>(212) 229-63-36</fax>
               <email>info@bsec-organization.org</email>
               <internet>www.bsec-organization.org</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p id="IO-BSEC.1">The Black Sea Economic Cooperation (BSEC) was established in 1992 to strengthen regional co-operation, particularly in the field of economic development. In June 1998, at a summit meeting held in Yalta, Ukraine, participating countries signed the BSEC Charter, thus officially elevating BSEC to regional organization status. The Charter entered into force on 1 May 1999, at which time BSEC formally became the Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation, retaining the same acronym.</p>
          <int-org-section id="IO-BSEC.2" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Members</heading>
               <table-block-simple id="IO-BSEC.3" type="OTHER">
                    <table style="WITHOUT-RULES">
                         <tgroup cols="3">
                              <colspec colwidth="6.6cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="6.6cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="6.6cm" />
                              <tbody>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Albania</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Greece</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Russian Federation</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Armenia</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Moldova</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Serbia</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Azerbaijan</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">North Macedonia</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Türkiye (Turkey)</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Bulgaria</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Romania</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Ukraine</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Georgia</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   </row>
                              </tbody>
                         </tgroup>
                    </table>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">Note: Observer status has been granted to Austria, Belarus, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Egypt, Germany, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Poland, Slovakia, Tunisia and the USA. The Commission on the Protection of the Black Sea Against Pollution, the Energy Charter Secretariat, the Euro­pean Commission and the International Black Sea Club also have observer status. Sectoral Dialogue Partnership status has been granted to Iran, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Montenegro and Slovenia, and 10 intergovernmental organizations.</content-note>
               </table-block-simple>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="IO-BSEC.4" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <heading-note>April 2024</heading-note>
          <int-org-section id="IO-BSEC.5" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Presidential Summit</heading>
               <p id="IO-BSEC.6">The Presidential Summit, comprising heads of state or of government of member states, represents the highest authority of the body. A planned 30th anniversary summit that was to have been convened in June 2022 was cancelled in view of the ongoing conflict between two member states, the Russian Federation and Ukraine.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-BSEC.6.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Council</heading>
               <p id="IO-BSEC.7">The Council of Ministers of Foreign Affairs is BSEC's principal decision-making organ. Ministers meet twice a year to review progress and to define new objectives. Chairmanship of the Council rotates among members (1 January-30 June 2024: Albania); the Chairman-in-Office co-ordinates the activities undertaken by BSEC. The Council is supported by a Committee of Senior Officials. Upon the request of the Chairman-in-Office a troika, comprising the current, most recent and next Chairman-in-Office, or their representatives, is convened to consider BSEC's ongoing and planned activities. The 47th meeting of the Council was convened, in a virtual format, in December 2023.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-BSEC.11" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Permanent International Secretariat</heading>
               <p id="IO-BSEC.12">The technical support and administrative activities of the secretariat (known as the BSEC PERMIS) are divided into the following clusters: Co-operation with International and Regional Organizations and Institutions; Main Bodies and Functions (covering legal, organizational, and budgetary affairs, co-ordination, and European Union—EU projects management); BSEC Funds; Trade and Economic Development (including working groups on trade and economic development, customs matters, banking and finance, the exchange of statistical data, and small and medium-sized enterprises—SMEs); Sectoral Industrial Co-operation (including working groups on transport, the facilitation of the road transportation of goods, the development of the Black Sea Ring Highway, the development of the Motorways of the Sea, energy, agriculture and agro-industry, and information and communication technologies); Science, Education and Culture (including working groups on tourism co-operation, culture, science and technology, and education); and Social Issues and Challenges (including working groups on environmental protection, health care and pharmaceuticals, combating crime, institutional renewal and good governance, emergency assistance, and seismic risk). Each working group is headed by an Executive Manager. There are also various ad hoc groups and meetings of experts.</p>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="IO-BSEC.13" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Secretary-General</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename> Lazăr</forename>
                                        <surname>Comănescu</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Romania</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
                    <!--~ Comanescu re-appointed in Dec. 2023 for a further term ending 30 June 2027-->
                    <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Deputy Secretary-General</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Merve</forename>
                                        <surname>Safa KavakcI</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Türkiye</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-BSEC.14" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Activities</heading>
          <p>Regional security was disrupted in February 2022 by the Russian Federation’s invasion of Ukraine. Ukraine was subsequently reported to have requested, without success, Russia’s expulsion from BSEC. In June, on the 30th anniversary of the foundation of BSEC, the organization’s Secretary-General stated hope that a resolution of the conflict, in full compliance with international law, would be achieved. In July negotiations held in İstanbul under the auspices of the UN and Türkiye (which had assumed a mediatory role) culminated in the conclusion by Russia and Ukraine of the UN-backed Black Sea Grain Initiative (BSGI), aimed at alleviating global food insecurity by enabling the resumption of exports of grain, sunflower oil and other essential goods from Odesa and two other Ukrainian Black Sea ports (that had hitherto been blockaded by Russia), and fertilizer and grain exports from Russia (which had been subjected to punitive sanctions). Extensions to the BSGI were subsequently agreed. On 17 July 2023, however, the initiative was halted, following a refusal by the Russian authorities to renew it, claiming that commitments made to Russia had not been fulfilled. Albania’s Chairmanship of BSEC during January-June 2024 was themed `Coming together for peaceful co-operation in the BSEC area’.</p>
          <p>
      The third co-ordination meeting between the BSEC PERMIS and the 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.11">Central European Initiative</xr>
      , with participation by the groupings’ troikas, was convened in May 2023, in İstanbul, reviving a format that had lapsed—the previous meeting having been held in 2009.
    </p>
          <p>In January 2024 the Albanian Chairmanship designated the following as its priority focus areas during January-June: Strengthening the organization’s efficiency and effectiveness; Facilitating bilateral, regional and inter-regional dialogue; Furthering interaction between BSEC and the EU; Strengthening co-operation in the economic, energy, transport, tourism and cultural sectors; and Enhancing the BSEC PERMIS’s external relations.</p>
          <p-group>
               <heading>Trade and Economic Development</heading>
               <p>
        In December 2023 the BSEC Council of Ministers endorsed an updated version—titled `Towards a sustainable future of the wider Black Sea area’—of a BSEC Economic Agenda, setting out priority areas of action for the next decade. (The first such 10-year agenda had been adopted in June 2012.)
        
         The BSEC Economic Agenda encompasses the following priority areas of action: Intensifying intra-regional trade and investments (including giving consideration to the possible future development of a BSEC Free Trade Area); Co-operation among customs and border crossing administrations; Establishment of an efficient, sustainable and safe transport network; Sustainable energy and development of a Black Sea Energy Market; Environment and climate action; Food security and safety; Healthcare and pharmaceutics; Development of tourism, protection of cultural heritage and promotion of modern culture; Sustainable development of the SME sector; Closer co-operation on banking and finance; Strengthening regional co-operation on scientific research and technology; Sustainable information society; Harmonization and exchange of economic and social statistical data and information; Higher standards on education and training; Strengthening national capacities on good governance and the rule of law; Combating organized crime, illegal trafficking of drugs and weapons, terrorism, corruption and money laundering; Co-operation in emergency situations; and Elaboration of a technical co-operation programme on regional development.
      </p>
               <p>BSEC aims to strengthen the regional business environment by providing support for SMEs; progressively eliminating obstacles to the expansion of trade; creating appropriate conditions for investment and industrial co-operation, in particular through the avoidance of double taxation and the promotion and protection of investments; encouraging the dissemination of information concerning international tenders organized by member states; and promoting co-operation on electronic commerce. In 2024 a draft Single Window Framework and draft Regional Trade Facilitation Strategy for the BSEC Region were being developed. A Project Development Fund, established in 2002, was reactivated during 2023.</p>
               <p>A BSEC Coordination Center for the Exchange of Statistical Data and Economic Information is located in Ankara, Türkiye. The development of BSEC networks of chambers of commerce is envisaged under the BSEC Economic Agenda.</p>
               <p>In June 2022 the BSEC PERMIS was represented at the 25th edition of the St Petersburg International Economic Forum (Russia), which was themed `New World—New Opportunities’. Also in that month the BSEC Secretary-General participated in the ninth Global Baku Forum (in Azerbaijan), themed `Challenges to the Global World Order’.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio casee eerca">The BSEC PERMIS supported the fourth Balkans and Black Sea Forum, which was held in December 2022, in Athens, Greece, with a focus on promoting regional economic integration and fostering co-operation on the environment, energy supply and security, connectivity and infrastructure, and on innovation and technology. (The first Forum in the series had been held in May 2017.)</p>
          </p-group>
          <p-group>
               <heading>Agriculture and Food Security</heading>
               <p>Meeting in May 2017, in İstanbul, BSEC agriculture ministers adopted a roadmap aimed at intensifying co-operation in the agricultural sector. In December the BSEC PERMIS and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN (FAO) concluded a Letter of Agreement, in accordance with which FAO was to fund an analysis of intraregional trade in agrifood, the formulation of a project on strengthening the regional agrifood trade sector, and a workshop on agrifood export development. An FAO-supported BSEC Regional Cooperation Centre for Sustainable Food Systems (BSEC-CSFS) became operational on 1 August 2020. A conference on food systems sustainability that was organized by BSEC-CSFS in March 2023, in İstanbul, determined to establish a regional network for principal food systems stakeholders.</p>
          </p-group>
          <p-group>
               <heading>Combating Crime</heading>
               <p>A BSEC Agreement on Co-operation in Combating Crime, in Particular in its Organized Forms entered into force in October 1999. A protocol on combating terrorism in the region was signed in December 2004. BSEC maintains a Network of Liaison Officers on Combating Crime.</p>
          </p-group>
          <p-group>
               <heading>Energy and Environmental Protection</heading>
               <p>In March 2005 BSEC ministers responsible for energy adopted the Alexandroupolis Declaration, approving a framework for future collaboration on the creation of a Black Sea Energy Market (a continuing priority under the BSEC Economic Agenda); and urging the liberalization of electricity and natural gas markets in accordance with EU directives as a basis for this. A BSEC Green Energy Network became operational in 2015. In December 2017 BSEC ministers responsible for foreign affairs approved a BSEC Climate Change Adaptation Strategy for the Black Sea Region. An International Scientific Conference of Energy and Climate Change has been convened under BSEC auspices regularly since 2008. The 10th BSEC Green Energy Investments Forum was organized in October 2023, in Athens. BSEC supports the annual Circle the Med forum on green transition towards climate neutrality (the seventh edition was held in January 2024, in Athens). It also supports the annual Black Sea Oil and Gas Forum (usually held in Bucharest, Romania, in June).</p>
               <p>In April 2019 Bulgaria, Georgia, Romania, the Russian Federation, Turkey (Türkiye) and Ukraine (the Black Sea littoral states, and signatories of the 1992 Bucharest Convention on the Protection of the Black Sea Against Pollution) adopted an updated Strategic Action Plan for Environmental Protection and Rehabilitation of the Black Sea. In May 2019 the six Black Sea littoral states and Moldova endorsed the EU’s Common Maritime Agenda (CMA) for the Black Sea, which (under Moldova’s co-ordination, in 2024) aimed, through the implementation of cross-border projects, to promote regional investment; healthy marine and coastal systems; and a competitive, sustainable regional blue economy—i.e. the sustainable growth of the Black Sea Basin’s maritime resources. In October 2020, to promote the regional blue economy, within the CMA framework, an EU-supported, BSEC-managed Black Sea Virtual Knowledge Center was inaugurated. The BSEC PERMIS supported the initiation of a major Global Environment Facility-funded and World Bank-supported Blueing the Black Sea (BBSEA) programme, covering the period 2021-24, with a focus on combating marine pollution and generating blue economy investment in the region, within the overall framework of the CMA. A workshop organized by BSEC at the beginning of February 2021 addressed current sources and impacts of regional marine pollution, took stock of pre-existing prevention efforts, and sought to establish priority areas of action for the BBSEA programme—with a particular focus on the development of sustainable business standards, means of attracting innovative green finance, and means of obtaining private-public partnership investment. An EU-funded BSEC project on combating microplastics and marine litter in the Black Sea—which was initiated in February—aimed to promote local pilot schemes to facilitate practical sustainable solutions to marine littering, such as the systematic collection and recycling of used fishing nets. In November 2022 BSEC’s Secretary-General participated in a Marine Litter Action Forum, held in İstanbul. The BSEC PERMIS was represented at the 10th edition of the biennial Nevsky International Ecological Congress, held in May 2023, in St Petersburg, Russia.</p>
               <p> The BSEC Economic Agenda envisages the establishment of a BSEC Information Exchange Mechanism for Environmental Protection.</p>
          </p-group>
          <p-group>
               <heading>Science, Education and Culture</heading>
               <p>
        BSEC aims to develop the regional research infrastructure, foster innovation, and advance the regional digital and green economy. A Strategic Research and Innovation Agenda for the Black Sea region was launched in May 2019. In April 2018 BSEC ministers responsible for education agreed, 
        <i>inter alia,</i>
         to collaborate on modernizing education systems in the region, to support the development of multilateral projects, and to promote entrepreneurial skills as well as science, technology, engineering, mathematics and the arts. In September 2022 the inaugural High-Tech Summit for the Black Sea was convened in Varna, Bulgaria. The First Meeting of the Presidents of the Academies of Sciences of the BSEC Member States was organized in İstanbul, in February 2024.
      </p>
               <p>BSEC has focused on promoting an interdisciplinary approach to the exploitation of cultural heritage, as a means of supporting regional economic development. Focal areas have included compiling an inventory of local traditional cultural expressions; developing cultural routes and cultural tourism projects (including mapping Byzantine routes); preparing a representative list of intangible cultural heritage; developing a BSEC digital cultural platform; and collecting statistical data on tourist flows. In 2021, in the context of the post-COVID-19 pandemic reinvigoration of the regional tourism industry, the EU funded two new BSEC tourism programmes: on supporting youth entrepreneurship in cultural tourism, and on sustainable small-scale cruising and yachting in the Black Sea.</p>
               <p id="EDIO">A Black Sea Broadcasting Regulatory Authorities Forum (BRAF), established in 2008, acts as a regional platform for the exchange of relevant information and expertise. </p>
          </p-group>
          <p-group>
               <heading>Transport</heading>
               <p>In late 2008 agreements entered into effect that provided for the co-ordinated development of a 7,100 km Black Sea Ring Highway and for `Motorways of the Sea’. In November 2020 a virtual meeting of BSEC ministers responsible for transport emphasized the need for more effective implementation of both projects. BSEC concluded a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the International Road Federation in November 2006, and an MOU with the International Union of Railways in March 2016. </p>
          </p-group>
          <p-group>
               <heading>Emergency Assistance</heading>
               <p>In June 2021 the Council of Ministers approved the merger of the (hitherto) ad hoc working groups on floods and torrents and on massive forest fires into the Working Group on Cooperation in Emergency Assistance. The Working Group maintains a Unified Database containing comprehensive information on national focal points competent to deal with emergency situations, and maintains a BSEC Network of the Liaison Officers on Emergency Assistance. An Ad Hoc Working Group of Experts in Seismic Risk was created in 2011.</p>
               <p>In February 2023 the BSEC PERMIS commended member states for their ongoing humanitarian support to Türkiye, southern areas of which (as well as northern parts of the Syrian Arab Republic) had recently been struck by devastating earthquakes. Some €50,000 was donated by BSEC to assist emergency response activities in Türkiye.</p>
          </p-group>
          <p-group>
               <heading>International and Regional Co-operation</heading>
               <p id="IO-BSEC.17">BSEC aims to foster relations with other international and regional organizations, and has been granted observer status at the United Nations (UN) General Assembly. In 2007 BSEC, with the UN Development Programme, established a Black Sea Trade and Investment Promotion Programme. BSEC agreed in 1999 upon a platform of co-operation for future structured relations with the EU; the EU became a permanent observer at BSEC in 2007. In February 2008 a joint BSEC-EU Black Sea Synergy initiative was launched, and the BSEC Council adopted a Declaration on a BSEC-EU Enhanced Relationship. Enhanced EU participation at BSEC high-level meetings was permitted from 2009. An annual meeting on BSEC-EU co-operation is convened.</p>
          </p-group>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO.BSEC.19" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Finance</heading>
          <p id="IO-BSEC.20">BSEC is financed by annual contributions from member states on the following scale: Greece, Russia, Türkiye and Ukraine each contribute 15% of the budget; Bulgaria, Romania and Serbia contribute 7.5%; the remaining members each contribute 3.5%.</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO.BSEC.19.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Publication</heading>
          <publ-list>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Black Sea News</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">2 a year</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
          </publ-list>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO.BSEC.22" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Related Bodies</heading>
          <org-list>
               <org-entry id="IO.BSEC.21" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation (PABSEC)</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>Levent Mahallesi, Levent Cad., Yeni Sülün Sokak, No. 2, 34330, Levent, Beşiktaş İstanbul, Türkiye</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(212) 227-6070</telephone>
                         <fax>(212) 227-6080</fax>
                         <email>pabsec@pabsec.org</email>
                         <internet>www.pabsec.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1993</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">the Assembly, consisting of the representatives of the national parliaments of mem. states, aims to provide a legal basis for the implementation of decisions within the BSEC framework</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">comprises cttees concerning economic, commercial, technological and environmental affairs; legal and political affairs; and cultural, educational and social affairs</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">the presidency rotates every six months</content-note>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Asaf</forename>
                                   <surname>Hajiyev</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Azerbaijan</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="IO.BSEC.23" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Black Sea Trade and Development Bank (BSTDB)</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>1 Komninon str., 54624 Thessaloníki, Greece</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(2310) 290400</telephone>
                         <fax>(2310) 221796</fax>
                         <email>info@bstdb.org</email>
                         <internet>www.bstdb.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1999</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">supports economic devt and regional co-operation by providing trade and project financing, guarantees, and equity for devt projects supporting both public and private enterprises in its mem. countries, in sectors including energy, infrastructure, finance, manufacturing, transport, and telecommunications</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">a Black Sea Project Promotion Facility was launched in Oct. 2017 (with a voluntary contribution of US&#8201;$1m. from the Russian Fed.)</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">in 2020 the Facility initiated a project on `E-Commerce Opportunities for SMEs: Boosting Exports and Opening Markets’</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">in March 2021 the Bank approved its first Climate Change Strategy (2021-30)</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">in March 2023 the Bank’s Board of Governors adopted a Medium-term Strategy and Business Plan (2023-24)</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">the Bank had approved total cumulative funding of €7,741m. for 459 operations by 31 Dec. 2023</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">auth. cap. €3,450m., paid-in cap. €2,288.5m. (30 June 2023)</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">the introduction of the Bank’s (second) capital increase was subsequently under consideration</content-note>
                    <stats>mems: 11 countries; observers: Austrian Development Bank, European Bank for Reconstruction (EBRD), European Investment Bank (EIB), International Finance Corporation (IFC), Nordic Investment Bank (NIB)</stats>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Pres.</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Serhat</forename>
                                   <surname>Köksal</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Türkiye</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Aristotelis</forename>
                                   <surname>Spiliotis</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Greece</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="IO.BSEC.24" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>BSEC Business Council</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>Müsir Fuad Pasa Yalisi, Eski Tersane, 80860 Istinye, İstanbul, Türkiye</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(212) 229-1144</telephone>
                         <email> info@bsec-business.org </email>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1992</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to secure greater economic integration and to promote investment in the region</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">maintains a web-based BSEC Business Information Exchange System</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">a process to reactivate the Council was undertaken in the second half of 2023</content-note>
                    <stats>mems: business cttees in 12 mem. states</stats>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="IO.BSEC.25" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>International Centre for Black Sea Studies (ICBSS)</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>19-21 Arachovis Str./Ippokratous, 10680 Athens, Greece</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(210) 3242321</telephone>
                         <fax>(210) 3242244</fax>
                         <email>icbss@icbss.org</email>
                         <internet>www.icbss.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1998</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to foster co-operation among BSEC mem. states and with international partners through applied research and advocacy</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">hosts a regular International Black Sea Symposium (13th: Nov. 2023, on the theme `The Black Sea in crises: challenges and opportunities in an unstable environment’), an Annual Lecture, and other events</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">the ICBSS financed and developed a WEB-GIS Observatory Network for the Environmental and Sustainable Development of the Black Sea</content-note>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Georgios</forename>
                                   <surname>Mitrakos</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Greece</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">
          publs 
          <publ-name>Black Sea Monitor</publ-name>
           (quarterly), 
          <publ-name>Xenophon Paper</publ-name>
           series, Policy Briefs 
        </content-note>
               </org-entry>
          </org-list>
     </int-org-section>
</int-org-entry>