<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="COMESA.IO" id-root="comesa.io" iso="comesa.io" original-filename="wb02034.txt" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio ass"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa</org-entry-name>
               <abbr>COMESA</abbr>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">MAJOR NON-UN ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ass">REGIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE">Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>COMESA Center, Ben Bella Rd, POB 30051, 101101 Lusaka, Zambia</verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <telephone alsofax="N">(1) 229725</telephone>
               <fax>(1) 225107</fax>
               <email>info@comesa.int</email>
               <internet>www.comesa.int</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p id="COMESA.IO.139">The COMESA treaty was signed by member states of the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern Africa (PTA) in November 1993. COMESA formally succeeded the PTA in December 1994. COMESA aims to strengthen regional economic and social development, with the ultimate aim of merging with the other regional economic communities (RECs) of the African Union (AU).</p>
          <int-org-section id="COMESA.IO.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Members</heading>
               <table-block-simple id="COMESA.IO.20" type="OTHER">
                    <table pgwide="NO" style="WITHOUT-RULES">
                         <tgroup cols="2">
                              <colspec colwidth="10cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="10cm" />
                              <tbody>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Burundi</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Malawi</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Comoros</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Mauritius</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Congo, Democratic Republic</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Rwanda</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Djibouti</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Seychelles</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Egypt</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Somalia</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Eritrea</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Sudan</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Eswatini</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Tunisia</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Ethiopia</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Uganda</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Kenya</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Zambia</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Libya</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Zimbabwe</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Madagascar</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   </row>
                              </tbody>
                         </tgroup>
                    </table>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">Note: COMESA heads of state and of government confirmed in October 2016 that South Sudan was eligible for membership.</content-note>
               </table-block-simple>
               <!--South Sudan-->
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="COMESA.IO.2" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <heading-note>April 2024</heading-note>
          <int-org-section id="COMESA.IO.3" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Authority</heading>
               <p id="COMESA.IO.160">The Authority of the Common Market is the supreme policy organ of COMESA, comprising heads of state or government of member countries. The 22nd summit meeting was held in June 2023, in Lusaka, Zambia, on the theme `Economic Integration for a Thriving COMESA Anchored on Green Investment, Value Addition and Tourism’.</p>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Chairperson</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Hakainde</forename>
                                        <surname>Hichilema</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>President of Zambia</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="COMESA.IO.4" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Council of Ministers</heading>
               <p>Each member government appoints a minister to participate in the Council. The Council monitors COMESA activities, including supervision of the Secretariat, recommends policy direction and development, and reports to the Authority.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-COMESA.161.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Committees</heading>
               <p>A Committee of Governors of Central Banks advises the Authority and the Council of Ministers on monetary and financial matters. An Intergovernmental Committee drafts programmes and action plans in all other sectors of co-operation, and reviews the development of the Common Market. Technical committees covering all areas of co-operation submit reports and recommendations to the Intergovernmental Committee.</p>
               <p>The Committee on Peace and Security, comprising senior officials from the ministries responsible for foreign affairs from member states, meets at least once a year to address the modalities of peace and security in the region. Recommendations of the Committee are submitted to meetings of the member states’ ministers of foreign affairs.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="COMESA.IO.5" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Court of Justice</heading>
               <p>The Court is vested with the authority to settle disputes between member states and to adjudicate on matters concerning the interpretation of the COMESA treaty. It is composed of seven judges, who serve terms of five years' duration, and comprises a First Instance division and an Appellate division.</p>
               <p>The Court’s permanent seat is located in Khartoum, Sudan. However, in September 2023, in view of the conflict ongoing in that country, a meeting of COMESA Ministers of Justice and Attorneys General determined temporarily to relocate the Court to Zambia.</p>
               <!--2023 Sudan conflict-->
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <!--VK Court of Justice comesacourt.org-->
                         <dir-entry-name>Registrar</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Nyambura L.</forename>
                                        <surname>Mbatia</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="COMESA.IO.7" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Secretariat</heading>
               <p>COMESA's secretariat, headed by a Secretary-General and supported by two Assistant Secretaries-General, includes the Executive Office of the Secretary-General and divisions of Legal and Corporate Affairs; Trade and Customs; Industry and Agriculture; Budget and Finance; Infrastructure and Logistics; Information and Networking; Gender and Social Welfare; and Administration.</p>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Secretary-General</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Chileshe Mpundu</forename>
                                        <surname>Kapwepwe</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Zambia</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="COMESA.IO.9" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Activities</heading>
          <p>
      COMESA promotes economic and social progress, co-operation and integration, and the eradication of poverty, in member states. A medium-term strategic plan guiding COMESA's goals and activities during the period 2021-25 was aligned on the following `pillars’: market integration; physical integration and connectivity; productive integration; and gender and social integration. It recognized the adverse socioeconomic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and prioritized, 
      <i>inter alia</i>
      , trade facilitation; infrastructure development; market integration; industrialization, including the advancement of micro, small and medium-sized businesses (MSMEs) and development of regional industrial clusters; resource mobilization; and the development of institutional and regulatory policies.
    </p>
          <p>The second Annual Retreat of the COMESA Secretariat’s executive and the CEOs of the organization’s institutions was convened in April 2023, in Lusaka.</p>
          <!--IMF 20 Dec 2016 5 East African countries have joined forces with the aim of forming a single currency area by 2024-->
          <int-org-section id="IO-COMESA.2" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Trade, Customs and Monetary Affairs</heading>
               <p>In October 2000 an extraordinary summit of COMESA heads of state and of government inaugurated a free trade area (FTA), as envisaged under the COMESA treaty, with nine initial members: Djibouti, Egypt, Kenya, Mada­gas­car, Malawi, Maur­itius, Sudan, Zambia and Zimbabwe. Burundi and Rwanda became members of the FTA in January 2004; Swaziland (now Eswatini), meanwhile, obtained a derogation enabling it to participate in the FTA as a non-reciprocating member. In March 2014 Ethiopia and Uganda announced that they were committed to ratifying the instruments of accession to the FTA. The DRC joined the FTA in February 2016 and announced immediate tariff reductions of 40%. Trading practices within the FTA have been liberalized, including the elim­ina­tion by August 2018 of 97.8% of all non-tariff barriers (NTBs), thereby enabling the free internal movement of goods, services and capital. New NTB Regulations, providing guidance on the elimination of barriers, were adopted in December 2015. In March 2021 COMESA launched an NTBs Regional Forum, with participation by national monitoring committees and focal points. In November 2023 the Council of Ministers urged all member states to ensure that dedicated NTB focal points were in place by the end of the year. By 2024 16 of the 19 member states were fully implementing the FTA. Members have been urged to maximize their usage of available preferences under the FTA, to enhance regional trade integration and resilience.</p>
               <p>A COMESA Customs Union (CU), with a common external tariff set at 0% for capital goods and raw materials, 10% for intermediate goods and 25% for finished products, was launched at the 13th annual summit meeting of the Authority, in June 2009. The full operationalization of the CU was, however, delayed. A COMESA Simplified Trade Regime (STR) was launched in 2010, with the aim of reducing trade-related documentation and procedures for small cross-border traders. A Protocol establishing a COMESA Fund, which assists member states in addressing structural imbalances in their economies, came into effect in November 2006. In March 2011 a Nairobi, Kenya-based COMESA Monetary Institute was inaugurated, tasked with enhancing the implementation of a monetary co-operation programme, in support of an eventual monetary union, which COMESA intends to establish by 2030. A regional payments and settlement system (REPSS), headquartered in Lusaka, became operational in October 2012, and facilitates the swift, cost-efficient transfer of funds between traders in COMESA member states through the pre-funding of commercial bank accounts held within, and guaranteed by, participating central banks. By September 2022 the total value of transactions processed through REPSS exceeded US&#8201;$486m. In early 2024 the system had nine participating states: the DRC, Egypt, Eswatini, Kenya, Malawi, Mauritius, Rwanda, Uganda and Zambia.</p>
               <p>In February 2021 COMESA issued a report that focused on the potential of the African Continental Free Trade Area for stimulating intra-COMESA trade. In September it was noted that intra-COMESA exports with a value of US&#8201;$905m. had been lost as a result of measures implemented to contain the spread of COVID-19; the digitalization of trade was recommended. The 21st COMESA summit meeting held in November called for the equitable global distribution of COVID-19 vaccines, especially with regard to Africa, and urged all member states to scale up investment in research and innovation in the health sector. The meeting endorsed the establishment of a new multi-sectoral technical committee on health. In June 2022 the inaugural meeting of COMESA ministers responsible for health determined to establish a COMESA Health Desk, which was to facilitate the development of policy and strategic frameworks on health, and to foster the local manufacture of medicines.</p>
               <p>The value of intra-COMESA exports was reported in November 2023 to have increased by 10% during 2022, while the value of the member states’ exports to the rest of the world rose by 15% in that year. In August 2023 it was reported that in June year-on-year inflation across the COMESA region stood at 27.9% (compared with 142.9% at June 2022).</p>
               <!--RCTG-CARNET Eastern and Southern Africa Anti Money Laundering Group-->
               <p>COMESA’s Regional Customs Transit Guarantee Scheme (RCTG-CARNET), launched in 2012, facilitates the movement of goods through the region by providing the necessary customs security and guarantees to transit countries. South Sudan (not yet a member of COMESA) joined the Scheme in May 2016. In March 2021 COMESA and the Africa Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) signed an agreement under which Afreximbank was to act as a guarantor for RCTG-CARNET. In 2023 a COMESA Virtual Trade Facilitation System (CVTFS), first piloted in 2013, covered Djibouti, DRC, Ethiopia, Kenya, Malawi, Rwanda, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia.</p>
               <p>
        A 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="WB02047.IO.TXT">European Union</xr>
         (EU)-funded COMESA Cross Border Trade Initiative was being implemented during May 2018-December 2024.
      </p>
               <p>A COMESA Protocol on the Gradual Relaxation and Eventual Elimination of Visa Requirements (`Visa Protocol’) was adopted in 1984. By 2024 only Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda and Zimbabwe were implementing the 2001 Protocol on the Free Movement of Persons, Services, Labour and the Right of Establishment and Residence.</p>
               <p>A COMESA Statistics Strategy covering the period 2021-25 was focused on advancing regional integration. Statistical data is collated in the online COMSTAT Data Hub.</p>
               <p>
        In October 2008 the first tripartite 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-DEVTANDECCOOP.66.1">COMESA-EAC-SADC</xr>
         summit was convened, in Kampala, Uganda, to discuss the harmonization of policy and programme work by the three communities. Leaders of the 26 countries attending the Kampala summit approved a roadmap towards the formation of an FTA and the eventual establishment of a single African Economic Community (a long-term objective of African Union—AU—co-operation). A COMESA-EAC-SADC Joint Competition Authority was established at the tripartite summit. At the second tripartite summit, held in June 2011, in Johannesburg, South Africa, negotiations were initiated on the creation of the COMESA-EAC-SADC Tripartite FTA (TFTA); an agreement establishing the TFTA was concluded in June 2015 (at early 2024 this had 11 ratifications, and required a further three to enter into force). On 31 July 2020 Tripartite Guidelines for the Movement of Persons, Goods and Services across the Tripartite Region during the COVID-19 Pandemic were introduced, based on guidelines developed by COMESA.
      </p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-COMESA.3" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Industry and Investment Promotion</heading>
               <p>In September 2017 COMESA ministers responsible for trade and industry adopted a regional common industrialization policy, covering the period 2017-26.</p>
               <p>A COMESA Business Council was inaugurated in 2003, with a mandate to provide a policy and advocacy platform for regional private sector interests. In October 2021 the COMESA Competition Commission published draft guidelines on the implementation of organization-wide competition regulations that had been introduced in 2004. The 16th COMESA Business Forum was convened in June 2023, in Lusaka, on the sidelines of the 22nd COMESA summit meeting.</p>
               <p>A COMESA Regional Investment Authority (RIA), based in Cairo, Egypt, was inaugurated in June 2006. An Agreement on the establishment of a COMESA Common Investment Area was adopted by the Authority in May 2007.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-COMESA.4" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Infrastructure Development</heading>
               <p>A World Bank Group-assisted COMESA Regional Infrastructure Finance Facility (RIFF) initiative that was underway over the period July 2020-September 2025 comprised a US&#8201;$325m. Project and Infrastructure Finance Facility (providing long-term finance to projects administered by the TDB); a $75m. COVID Infrastructure Sector SME Response component (with a focus on the renewable energy sector); and a $25m. technical assistance element.</p>
               <p>
        In March 2009 a Regional Association of Energy Regulators for Eastern and Southern Africa was initiated. An Eastern Africa Power Pool (EAPP) has been established by COMESA, with participation by Burundi, the DRC, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Sudan, Tanzania and Uganda, as well as Libya and Tanzania (not members of COMESA). COMESA and 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="SADC.IO">SADC</xr>
         have the joint objective of eventually linking the EAPP and the Southern Africa Power Pool. In September 2023 COMESA ministers responsible for transport, communications, information technology and energy endorsed a set of Model Solar Standards; a Model Common Customs Tariff Framework for solar products was under development. It was announced in February 2024 that COMESA and the World Bank were to implement an Accelerating Sustainable and Clean Energy Access Transformation (ASCENT) initiative, at a cost of US&#8201;$50m. At that time COMESA was leading the implementation of a 
        
        $1.5m Project on Regional Harmonization of Regulatory Frameworks and Tools for Improved Electricity Regulation in the COMESA Region, funded by the African Development Bank (AfDB).
      </p>
               <p>The design of a COMESA Digital Free Trade Area (DFTA) was finalized in November 2017, incorporating measures to use digital technology to facilitate cross-border trade, for example electronic certificates of origin (e-COs) or online trademark registrations. In July 2018 the Council of Ministers established a sub-committee to support implementation of the DFTA. Eswatini, Malawi, and Zambia were to pilot the COMESA e-CO system during 2024. A regional Public-Private Dialogue on Digital Financial Inclusion was held in January 2021. In March COMESA reported that digital finance had thrived in the region since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, strengthening financial inclusion through the extension of services (such as mobile phone cash transfers) to hitherto unbanked people. COMESA was the lead REC guiding the implementation of a programme underway during 2021-24 that aimed to enhance the governance and enabling environment of the information and communications sector in the Eastern Africa, Southern Africa and the Indian Ocean region.</p>
               <p>A COMESA Virtual University of Regional Integration, launched in September 2019, offers Masters’ Degrees in Regional Integration accredited by Kenya’s Kenyatta University and by the University of Mauritius. The 11th annual COMESA Research Forum was to be held in September 2024, on the theme `Fostering Economic Integration and Inclusivity in COMESA through Value Addition, Green Investments and Tourism’.</p>
               <p>A COMESA Airspace Integration project aims to develop a single, subregional airspace. A meeting of regional experts, held in June 2017, determined to undertake a COMESA Seamless Upper Airspace project during 2018-25. COMESA and other RECs participate in the Support programme to the Air Transport Sector Development (SATSD) in Eastern Africa, Southern Africa and the Indian Ocean region, which was launched in 2020 with the aim of stimulating demand for air transport services, and thus also increasing employment in related sectors. COMESA participates in the AU’s Single African Air Transport Market initiative (q.v.).</p>
               <p>COMESA helps co-ordinate a `VICMED’ initiative to develop a navigational route between Lake Victoria and the Mediterranean. The establishment of a regional shipping line for COMESA island states is envisaged.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-COMESA.5" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Agriculture, Environment and Natural Resources</heading>
               <p>COMESA maintains a Food and Agricultural Marketing Information System, providing up-to-date data on the subregional food security situation. A regional food security programme aims to ensure continuous adequate food supplies. A COVID-19 Food Security Response Plan for the region was adopted by the Council of Ministers in November 2020. In September 2022 COMESA and partners launched a digital Regional Food Balance Sheet, which aimed to promote the application of advanced remote sensing and analytical technologies to strengthen food commodity forecasting. The organization supports the establishment of common agricultural standards and phytosanitary regulations throughout the region in order to stimulate trade in food crops. The Alliance for Commodity Trade in Eastern and Southern Africa (ACTESA), established in 2008, aims to integrate small farmers into national, regional and international markets. In February 2014 the COMESA Authority adopted a policy on commercial planting, trade and emergency food assistance, involving genetically modified organisms. In March 2015 regional experts validated an implementation plan for a COMESA policy on biotechnology and biosafety. A COMESA Seed Harmonization Implementation Plan (COMSHIP) was initiated in November 2019, with a view to enhancing seed production and the competitiveness of the regional seed industry. In 2022 COMESA co-ordinated Climate Smart Agriculture (CSA) pilot programmes in Eswatini, Madagascar, Seychelles, Uganda and Zimbabwe. A COMESA-East African Community Horticultural Accelerator (CEHA) was launched in June 2023, in Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-COMESA.7" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Climate Change Adaptation</heading>
               <p>Following a recommendation by the AU, in January 2007, that climate change adaptation strategies should be integrated into African national and subregional development planning and activities, COMESA launched a Climate Change Initiative. A COMESA climate action virtual knowledge management portal was initiated in July 2021. In December the COMESA Secretariat organized a regional meeting to validate an implementation plan and resource mobilization strategy for a new COMESA Regional Resilience Framework (RRF), focused on building resistance to climate change and to disasters such as droughts, cyclones, landslides and disease epidemics; the RRF was scheduled to become operational during 2024.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-COMESA.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Gender and Social Affairs</heading>
               <p>
        COMESA’s Gender and Social Affairs division, established in 2008, supports increased involvement by the grouping in areas related to social development, including health, education, youth affairs, and migration and labour. A COMESA Social Charter, opened for signature in April 2015, aimed to incorporate social dimensions into the regional integration agenda, through the identification of economic and social rights-related benchmarks. In 2013 a Migration Dialogue from the COMESA Member States was inaugurated. A Gender Policy Implementation Plan, aimed at strengthening gender mainstreaming at all levels of the organization, was endorsed in November 2021 by the 21st COMESA summit meeting. COMESA released the second edition of a 
        <publ-name>Gender Statistics Bulletin</publ-name>
        , covering 2020/21, and a related report, in June 2023. A COMESA Youth Advisory Panel was established in 2021. The third annual high-level conference of ministers responsible for youth was convened in May 2023, in Bujumbura, Burundi.
      </p>
               <p>In July 2018 COMESA, the EAC and the Economic Community of West African States launched an AfDB-funded online women’s economic empowerment project, 50 Million African Women Speak (50MAWS), with the aim of providing financial and other information to women entrepreneurs. A 50MAWS Digital Platform was initiated in November 2019.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-COMESA.6" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Governance, Peace and Security</heading>
               <p id="COMESA.IO.170">Meetings of member states’ ministers of foreign affairs address recommendations made by COMESA’s Committee on Peace and Security, which met for the first time in 2000. It was announced in September 2002 that the COMESA Treaty was to be amended to provide for the establishment of a formal conflict prevention and resolution structure to be governed by member countries’ heads of state. COMESA’s programme on Governance, Peace and Security has pillars of conflict prevention, conflict management and post conflict reconstruction.</p>
               <p>COMESA participates, with other RECs, in the AU’s Continental Early Warning System. The regional COMWARN early warning system, launched in 2009, monitors indicators of vulnerability to conflict in member states. A COMWARN structural vulnerability assessment model has been developed. A COMESA Peace and Prosperity Index tracks drivers associated with peace and prosperity in member states, with input from COMWARN.</p>
               <p>A nine-member COMESA Committee of Elders, tasked with undertaking preventive peacebuilding assignments, met for the first time in December 2011. In November 2013 COMESA ministers responsible for justice adopted rules of procedure for the Committee of Elders, aimed at guiding its activities.</p>
               <p>A COMESA Trading for Peace programme—using trade as a peacebuilding mechanism—is implemented in countries that are emerging from conflict. COMESA’s War Economy programme, meanwhile, aims to enhance legal frameworks to support the economies in conflict-affected countries.</p>
               <p>
        In February 2016 COMESA concluded an MOU with the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XB.IO.TXT.74">Communauté Économique des Pays des Grands Lacs</xr>
         aimed at deepening co-operation on economic development, peace and security.
      </p>
               <p>COMESA, the EAC, IGAD, and the Indian Ocean Commission jointly support the Programme to Promote Regional Maritime Security in the Eastern and Southern Africa-Indian Ocean region (MASE), aimed at combating piracy in the Indian Ocean.</p>
               <p>Under its programme on democracy and governance COMESA deploys teams of observers to monitor elections held in member states. Joint AU-COMESA election missions have been deployed since August 2022 (in late 2023: to observe presidential elections that were held in Madagascar in November and in Egypt in December).</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="COMESA.IO.18" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Finance</heading>
          <p id="COMESA.IO.179">COMESA is financed by member states.</p>
          <!--~ In early 2021 Uganda was reportedly under threat of suspension from COMESA owing to unpaid fees-->
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="COMESA.IO.19" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Publications</heading>
          <publ-list>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Annual Report</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>e-COMESA Newsletter</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">weekly</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Key Issues in Integration</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Official Gazette</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
          </publ-list>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="COMESA.IO.10" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>COMESA Institutions</heading>
          <org-list>
               <org-entry id="COMESA.IO.13" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <data-protection date-added="10.06.2021" ticked-box="Y" />
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Africa Leather and Leather Products Institute (ALLPI)</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>POB 2358, 1110 Addis Ababa, Ethiopia</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(11) 4390330</telephone>
                         <email>executive.director@allpi.int</email>
                         <internet>www.allpi.int</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1990 as the PTA Leather Institute; subsequently renamed as the COMESA Leather and Leather Products Institute, present name adopted in 2018</found-date>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Exec. Dir</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <title>Prof.</title>
                                   <forename>Nicholas</forename>
                                   <surname>Mudungwe</surname>
                              </person-name>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="COMESA.IO.11" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>African Trade and Development Insurance (ATIDI)</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>POB 10620, 00100-GPO, Nairobi, Kenya</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(20) 2726999</telephone>
                         <fax>(20) 2719701</fax>
                         <email>info@atidi.africa</email>
                         <internet>www.atidi.africa</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>2001 as the African Trade Insurance Agency, present name adopted in 2023</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">promotes trade and investment activities throughout the region</content-note>
                    <stats>mems: 21 African countries, 12 orgs</stats>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>CEO</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Manuel</forename>
                                   <surname>Moses</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Zimbabwe</person-note>
                         </person>
                         <!--~ in Dec. 2023 ATIDI became a strategic partner of the Lusophone Development Compact-->
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <!--rc 23.02.2024 cannot find new info on the web-->
                    <!--v.2021 www.comesa.int/new-actesa-board-unveiled-->
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Alliance for Commodity Trade in Eastern and Southern Africa (ACTESA)</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>Corporate Park, Alick Nkhata Rd, 10101 Lusaka, Zambia</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(21) 1253572</telephone>
                         <email>info@actesacomesa.org</email>
                         <internet>actesacomesa.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>2008, became a specialized agency of COMESA in June 2009</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to integrate small farmers into national, regional and international markets</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">a COMESA Regional Policy on Biotechnology and Biosafety was revitalized under ACTESA’s auspices from 2020</content-note>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>CEO</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <title>Dr</title>
                                   <forename>John</forename>
                                   <surname>Mukuka</surname>
                              </person-name>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="COMESA.IO.12" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>COMESA Business Council</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>COMESA Centre, Ben Bella Rd, POB 30051, 101101 Lusaka, Zambia</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(21) 1229725</telephone>
                         <email>info@comesabusinesscouncil.org</email>
                         <internet>www.comesabusinesscouncil.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>2005 as a private sector policy and advocacy platform</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">has developed a Regional Code on Anti-Corrupton Compliance for Enterprises</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">implements an MSME Digital Financial Inclusion Project</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">in May 2023 initiated an online e-Academy</content-note>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>CEO</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Teddy</forename>
                                   <surname>Soobramanien</surname>
                              </person-name>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>COMESA Competition Commission</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>Kang’ombe House, 5th Floor, Lilongwe 3, Malawi</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(1) 772-466</telephone>
                         <email>compcom@comesa.int</email>
                         <internet>comesacompetition.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>2004, began operations 2013</found-date>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>CEO</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Willard</forename>
                                   <surname>Mwemba</surname>
                              </person-name>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="COMESA.IO.COMFWB.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>COMESA Federation of National Associations of Women in Business</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>COMFWB</abbr>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>Off Oak House, City Centre, POB 1499, Lilongwe, Malawi</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(1) 774-656</telephone>
                         <email>comfwb@comesa.int</email>
                         <internet>www.comfwb.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1993 as the Federation of National Associations of Women in Business in Eastern and Southern Africa—FEMCOM, present name adopted in Aug. 2020</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to promote progs that integrate women into regional trade and devt activities</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">co-ordinates implementation of the AUDA-NEPAD-funded Business Incubator for African Women Entrepreneurs programme</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">the COMFWB Cluster Development programme promotes trade and technology transfer, particularly in the agriculture, industry and services sectors</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">also manages the Regional Enterprise Competitiveness and Access to Markets Programme (RECAMP)</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">organizes an annual COMFWB Trade Fair</content-note>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>CEO</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Chikakula</forename>
                                   <surname>Miti</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>acting</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>COMESA Regional Investment Authority (COMESA-RIA)</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>
              3
              <sc>a</sc>
               Salah Salem Rd, Nasr City, 11562&#160;Cairo, Egypt
            </verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 4055428</telephone>
                         <email>info@comesaria.org</email>
                         <internet>www.comesaria.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">promotes investment at national and regional level</content-note>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>CEO</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Heba</forename>
                                   <surname>Salama</surname>
                              </person-name>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Eastern African Power Pool (EAPP)</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>House 059, Wereda 02, Bole, Addis Ababa Ethiopia</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(11) 6671669</telephone>
                         <email>eapp@eappool.org</email>
                         <internet>eappool.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">in Feb. 2005 ministers responsible for energy from Burundi, the DRC, Egypt, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda and Sudan signed the Inter-Governmental MOU on the establishment of the EAPP</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">became a COMESA specialized institution in 2006</content-note>
                    <stats>mems: 13 countries</stats>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>James Karari</forename>
                                   <surname>Wahogo</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Kenya</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="COMESA.IO.16" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Eastern and Southern African Trade and Development Bank (TDB)</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>Chaussée Prince Louis, Rwagasore, Bujumbura, Burundi</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">22224966</telephone>
                         <fax>2222498</fax>
                         <email>info@tdbgroup.org</email>
                         <internet>www.tdbgroup.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1983; fmrly commonly known as the PTA Development Bank, rebranded as the Trade and Development Bank (TDB) in 2017</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to mobilize resources and finance COMESA activities to foster regional integration, trade and sustainable devt</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">in Feb. 2016 concluded an MOU with the Export-Import Bank of China on co-operation in infrastructure, project and trade finance</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">a subsid. Eastern and Southern African Infrastructure Fund (ESAIF), launched in 2017, acts an investment manager for the COMESA Infrastructure Fund (focused on the devt of public infrastructure)</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">a subsid. Eastern and Southern African Trade Fund (ES&#8201;ATF) was initiated in Aug. 2019</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">the subsid. Trade and Development Fund, est. in 2020, offers technical and financial assistance and grants</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">TDB Captive Insurance (TCI) was inaug. in 2021</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">in June 2022 the TDB acquired 100% ownership of Eastern and Southern African Trade Advisers Ltd (ESATAL)</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">maintains a further principal office in Reduit, Mauritius, and regional offices in Nairobi, Kenya and Harare, Zimbabwe</content-note>
                    <stats>total assets US$8,392m. (31 Dec. 2022)</stats>
                    <stats>mems: 22 from the Eastern and Southern Africa region, 2 non-regional (Belarus and the People’s Rep. of China), 14 institutions</stats>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Man. Dir</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Admassu</forename>
                                   <surname>Tadesse</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Ethiopia</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="COMESA.IO.15" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>ZEP-RE</org-entry-name>
                         <alt-name>PTA Reinsurance Co</alt-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>ZEP-RE Pl., Longonot Rd, Upper Hill, POB 42769, 00100 Nairobi, Kenya</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(20) 2738221</telephone>
                         <fax>(20) 2738444</fax>
                         <email>mail@zep-re.com</email>
                         <internet>www.zep-re.com</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1992, as compagnie de réassurance de la zone d'échanges préférentiels</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">provides local reinsurance services and training to personnel in the insurance industry</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">
          incl. a 
          <i>Shari`a</i>
          -compliant ZEP-RE Retakaful Window
        </content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">a ZEP-RE Academy, offering training, became operational in 2017</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">co-ordinates the Horn of Africa De-risking, Inclusion and Value Enhancement (DRIVE) project, which supports pastoralists by expanding access value chains and to financial services for drought mitigation, and by facilitating trade in livestock</content-note>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Man. Dir</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Hope</forename>
                                   <surname>Murera</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Uganda</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
          </org-list>
          <!--~ COMESA Monetary Institute.-->
     </int-org-section>
</int-org-entry>