<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="IO-UN.923" id-root="io-un.923" iso="io-un.923" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee eerca"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>Economic Commission for Europe</org-entry-name>
               <abbr>UNECE</abbr>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">International Organizations</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">United Nations</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee eerca">Regional Organizations</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb">United Nations (Regional Commissions)</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="edio">Economic Commission for Europe</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">The United Nations in Central and South-Eastern Europe</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="eerca">The United Nations in Eastern Europe, Russia and Central Asia</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>Palais des Nations, 1211 Geneva 10, Switzerland</verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <telephone alsofax="N">229171234</telephone>
               <fax>229170505</fax>
               <email>unece_info@un.org</email>
               <internet>www.unece.org</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p id="IO-UN.924">UNECE was established in 1947, initially to co-ordinate post-war economic assistance. The Commission promotes pan-European and transatlantic economic integration, and acts as a multilateral forum for dialogue and co-operation on economic and sectoral issues. It provides analysis, policy advice and assistance to governments, gives focus to UN global mandates on economic issues, and establishes norms, standards and conventions to facilitate international co-operation within and beyond the region.</p>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.925" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="casee eerca edio">
               <heading>Members</heading>
               <table-block-simple id="IO-UN.926" type="OTHER">
                    <table style="WITHOUT-RULES">
                         <tgroup cols="3">
                              <colspec colwidth="6.5cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="6.5cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="6.5cm" />
                              <tbody>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Albania</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Greece</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Poland</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Andorra</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Hungary</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Portugal</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Armenia</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Iceland</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Romania</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Austria</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Ireland</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Russian Federation</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Azerbaijan</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Israel</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">San Marino</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Belarus</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Italy</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Serbia</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Belgium</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Kazakhstan</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Slovakia</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Bosnia and Herzegovina</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Kyrgyzstan</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Slovenia</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Bulgaria</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Latvia</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Spain</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Canada</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Liechtenstein</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Sweden</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Croatia</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Lithuania</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Switzerland</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Cyprus</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Luxembourg</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Tajikistan</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Czech Republic</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Malta</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Türkiye (Turkey)</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Denmark</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Moldova</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Turkmenistan</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Estonia</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Monaco</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Ukraine</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Finland</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Montenegro</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">United Kingdom</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">France</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Netherlands</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">USA</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Georgia</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">North Macedonia</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Uzbekistan</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Germany</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Norway</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   </row>
                              </tbody>
                         </tgroup>
                    </table>
               </table-block-simple>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.927" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <heading-note>April 2024</heading-note>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.928" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Commission</heading>
               <p id="IO-UN.929">The Commission, the highest decision-making body of the organization, holds biennial formal sessions in Geneva, Switzerland, to review the economic situation and decide on activities for the coming two years. The 70th session was held in April 2023. As well as taking strategic decisions the Commission provides a forum for senior-level dialogue on regional economic development policy.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.UNECE.0003" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Executive Committee</heading>
               <p id="IO-UNECE.0004">The Executive Committee prepares the formal sessions of the Commission, implements its decisions, and acts on its behalf between sessions. The Executive Committee also reviews and approves the programmes of work of the sectoral committees, which report at least once a year to the Executive Committee.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.931" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Secretariat</heading>
               <p>The secretariat services the meetings of the Commission and its sectoral committees and publishes periodic surveys and reviews, including a number of specialized statistical bulletins. It incorporates the following Divisions: Economic Co-operation and Trade; Environment; Forests, Land and Housing; Programme Management and Support Services; Statistical; Sustainable Energy; and Sustainable Transport. The Executive Secretary carries out secretarial functions for the executive bodies of several regional conventions and their protocols.</p>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="IO-UN.933" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Executive Secretary</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Tatiana</forename>
                                        <surname>Molcean</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Moldova</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
                    <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF" usage="edio eerca">
                         <dir-entry-name>Deputy Executive Secretary</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Dmitry</forename>
                                        <surname>Mariyasin</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Russia</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.UNECE.0005" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Sectoral Committees</heading>
               <p>There are Committees on Innovation, Competitiveness and Public-Private Partnerships; Environmental Policy; Forests and the Forestry Industry; Urban Development, Housing and Land Management; Inland Transport; and Sustainable Energy; and a Steering Committee on Trade Capacity and Standards. There is also a Conference of European Statisticians.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.934" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Activities</heading>
          <p>The guiding principle of UNECE activities is the promotion of sustainable economic growth among its member countries. To this end it provides a forum for communication among states; negotiates international legal instruments concerning trade, transport and the environment; and supplies statistics and economic and environmental analysis.</p>
          <p>UNECE has identified four high-impact cross-cutting `nexus’ areas that inform its activities: Sustainable use of natural resources; Sustainable and smart cities for all ages; Sustainable mobility and smart connectivity; and Measuring and monitoring progress towards the SDGs. The Commission’s 70th session in April 2023 focused on accelerating sustainable, inclusive development through the use of digital and `green’ technologies and strengthened regulatory and policy frameworks.</p>
          <p>In March 2021 the inaugural meeting took place of a Regional Collaborative Platform (RCP) for Europe and Central Asia. The Platform is chaired by the UN Deputy Secretary-General, with UNECE’s Executive Secretary and the Director of the UNDP Regional Bureau for Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States acting as Vice-Chairs.</p>
          <p-group>
               <heading>Regional Forum on Sustainable Development</heading>
               <p>
        UNECE’s 67th session, convened in April 2017, endorsed the creation of a multi-stakeholder Regional Forum on Sustainable Development, tasked with leading the regional follow up, as well as reviewing the implementation, of the UN’s 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UNDP.001">2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development</xr>
         and 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In March 2022 UNECE released an updated online Portal on Standards for SDGs, encompassing around 20,800 standards that contribute to realizing the Goals. The 2024 Regional Forum was held in March, in Geneva and online, on the theme `Reinforcing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in the UNECE region in times of multiple crises: The effective delivery of sustainable, resilient and innovative solutions’. Five peer learning round table sessions were convened to review in depth implementation of the following SDGs: 1 (ending poverty), 2 (ending hunger), 13 (climate action), 16 (promoting peaceful and inclusive societies), and 17 (partnerships).
      </p>
          </p-group>
          <int-org-section id="IO-ECE.723" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Economic Co-operation and Integration</heading>
               <p>UNECE aims to strengthen the competitiveness of member states’ economies by promoting innovation; facilitating the development of entrepreneurship and the emergence of new enterprises; supporting effective regulatory policies and corporate governance; upholding intellectual property rights; and by advancing public-private partnerships (PPPs). A strong focus is placed on promoting green and decent jobs, in a competitive economic environment. UNECE supports broad sharing of natural assets, and aims to prolong product lifecycles. In April 2022 UNECE launched a policy platform to promote dialogue on the transition to a circular economy, with the aim of minimizing waste and pollution.</p>
               <p>In March 2022 UNECE’s Expert Group on Resource Management initiated consultations on Draft Guidance for the Application of the UN Framework Classification for Resources (UNFC) for Mineral and Anthropogenic Resources in Europe: this aimed to establish a harmonized science-based system and inventory for managing and reporting on the availability and sustainability of natural resources; it was envisaged that the UNFC could be used, for example, by industry when making investment decisions. In October the Expert Group on Resource Management approved a new UN Resource Management System (UNRMS), focused on circularity, and aligned with the UNFC.</p>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>PPPs</heading>
                    <p>
          UNECE aims to increase the expertise of governments to identify and implement successful PPP projects. An International Centre of Excellence (ICoE) on PPPs was established in Geneva in 2011, under the aegis of UNECE, and several affiliated specialized subsidiary PPP centres were subsequently designated, covering, 
          <i>inter alia,</i>
           policies, laws and institutions (based in Paris, France); smart and sustainable cities (Barcelona, Spain); water and sanitation (Lisbon, Portugal); and public transport and logistics (Beijing, People’s Republic of China). In May 2017 UNECE and China initiated a PPP capacity building programme within the framework of the Belt and Road Initiative that was launched by China in 2013 with the aim of developing infrastructure and trade along traditional routes between Asia, Europe and Africa. The ICoE formulates standards and recommendations on international best practices in the use of PPPs. UNECE published a legal framework in December 2023 to underpin support by PPPs for the implementation of the SDGs. The Eighth UNECE International PPP Forum was to be hosted from İstanbul, Türkiye, in May 2024. 
        </p>
               </p-group>
               <p usage="casee eerca">
        UNECE has concluded memorandums of understanding (MOUs) on strengthening co-operation with, 
        <i>inter alia,</i>
         the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IEA.IO.CASEE">International Energy Agency</xr>
         (in 2014); the International Geothermal Association (also in 2014); the International Gas Union (in 2015); the UN Environment Programme (UNEP, likewise in 2015); and—with a focus on increasing awareness of clean coal technologies—with the World Coal Association (in 2017).
      </p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio eerca">The UN Special Programme for the Economies of Central Asia (SPECA)—established in 1998, and supported jointly by UNECE and ESCAP—helps the participating countries to strengthen regional co-operation, particularly in the areas of water resources, energy and transport, and, since 2015, the attainment of the UN’s 2030 Agenda. The inaugural summit of SPECA heads of state or of government was convened in November 2023, in Baku, Azerbaijan.</p>
               <!--In May 2013 a tripartite Memorandum of Understanding was concluded between UNECE, ESCAP and the Eurasian Economic Community, committing to future co-operation between the three groupings .... Eur Ec Union -->
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-ECE.75" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Environmental Policy</heading>
               <p>UNECE facilitates and promotes co-operation among member governments in developing and implementing policies for environmental protection, the sustainable use of natural resources, and resolving transboundary environmental problems. The Committee on Environmental Policy (CEP) facilitates and prepares the Environment for Europe (EfE) process, the focus of which is a ministerial-level conference that is normally held every four years. The eighth ministerial meeting, convened in June 2016, in Batumi, Georgia, agreed a pan-European Strategic Framework, with the aim of facilitating the transition to a Green Economy. The meeting also adopted the Batumi Initiative on Green Economy (BIG-E), comprising voluntary commitments to be undertaken by member governments and public and private sector agencies. The ninth EfE Ministerial Conference was held in Nicosia, Cyprus, in October 2022, and addressed issues including transitioning to a green and circular economy built on sustainable infrastructure, the environmental consequences of the Russian Federation’s war against Ukraine, reducing negative impacts of tourism, and strengthening education for sustainable development (ESD) with a view to advancing environmental governance, democracy and skills.</p>
               <p> UNECE promotes the inclusion of ESD in member states’ national education policies and frameworks. The Commission’s Environmental Monitoring and Assessment Programme supports member states in managing environmental data and information; a Working Group on Environmental Monitoring and Assessment meets regularly. A Shared Environmental Information Systems (SEIS) initiative has been developed across Europe and Central Asia. Through a programme of Environmental Performance Reviews UNECE helps individual member countries to improve the effectiveness of environmental management and policies. A UNECE Task Force on Digitalization in Energy was established in 2020 by the Committee on Sustainable Energy.</p>
               <p usage="casee">In 2017, on the basis of MOUs entered into by UNECE aimed at advancing the dissemination of best practices in coal mine methane management, ICoEs on Coal Mine Methane were established in Katowice, Poland (in June) and in Taiyuan City, Shanxi, China (in September).</p>
               <p>In December 2022 UNECE’s Executive Secretary issued a joint statement on behalf of all the heads of the UN Regional Commissions that endorsed the newly-adopted Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework, expressed determination to work together to prevent further biodiversity loss, and committed the organizations to mainstreaming biodiversity into their policies, programmes and operations. In January 2023 UNECE issued updated guidance to assist governments in enhancing biodiversity protection policies on the basis of the Kunming-Montreal Framework.</p>
               <p>UNECE has negotiated the following five environmental conventions, for which it serves as the secretariat:</p>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Aarhus Convention</heading>
                    <p>The Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Matters entered into force in October 2001 (and was opened from 2011 to accession also by non-UNECE states). A Protocol on Pollutant Release and Transfer Registers came into effect in October 2009. In May 2005 states parties to the Aarhus Convention adopted an Amendment concerning the deliberate release into the environment and placing on the market of genetically modified organisms. In October 2021 the meeting of the parties to the Convention decided to establish a rapid response mechanism to protect environmental defenders, in view of threats, surveillance, penalty fines or violence that they may encounter in controversial situations. The first Special Rapporteur on environmental defenders was elected by the parties in June 2022. Guinea-Bissau became the 47th state party to the Convention in April 2023.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Air Convention</heading>
                    <p>The Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Pollution (Air Convention) entered into force in 1983 and has since been extended by eight protocols. It had 51 states parties at February 2024. In October 2019 a series of amendments to the Air Convention’s Gothenburg Protocol to Abate Acidification, Eutrophication and Ground-level Ozone entered into effect, incorporating national emission reduction commitments for main air pollutants, including fine particulate matter. In December 2023 the parties to the Air Convention agreed to revise the Gothenburg Protocol to include further targeted emissions reduction measures across the energy, agriculture, and transport and shipping sectors, and also to cover transformations in modes of heating and diets. A Protocol on Heavy Metals (relating to reductions in emissions of cadmium, lead and mercury) came into force in December 2003, and amendments to this took effect in February 2022, setting tighter particulate matter emissions limits. The second meeting of a Task Force for International Cooperation on Air Pollution was convened in February 2024 (the first having taken place in October 2022).</p>
                    <p usage="edio casee">In March 2020 UNECE reported that only 10 member states—Canada, Estonia, Finland, Iceland, Ireland, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Spain and the USA—had levels of `fine particulate matter’ beneath the limit stipulated by World Health Organization guidelines.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Convention on the Transboundary Effects of Industrial Accidents</heading>
                    <p>Entered into force in April 2000, and has one Protocol. A UNECE Industrial Accident Notification (IAN) System has been developed under the Convention.</p>
                    <p usage="ewyb edio eerca">In March 2022 UNECE stated concern over attacks on gas pipelines, fuel depots and chemical storage facilities that had occurred since the commencement in February of the war in Ukraine. UNECE warned of a high risk of industrial accidents arising in this context—emphasizing that Ukraine had several nuclear power plants and many warehouses storing hazardous substances, and that the impacts of a technological disaster could also affect neighbouring countries. The cessation of hostilities and implementation of preventive measures was urged. Ukraine acceded to the Convention in July.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Espoo Convention</heading>
                    <p>The Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a Transboundary Context entered into force in 1997, and had 45 states parties at February 2024. A Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment became effective in July 2010. Following the entry into force in August 2014 of an amendment to the Espoo Convention, it became a universally accessible instrument, open to all UN member states. A second amendment to the Espoo Convention, which entered into force in November 2017, provided for strengthened implementation of environmental impact assessments.</p>
                    <p usage="eerca">In June 2011 parties to the Espoo Convention issued a caution against Ukraine—the first such caution—for non-compliance with its obligations under the Convention, in relation to alleged environmental damage caused to the ecosystem of the Danube delta (a UNESCO World Heritage Site) by the Bystroe (Bãstroe) channel project, focused on providing a deep-water route linking the Danube and the Black Sea.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Water Convention</heading>
                    <p>The Convention on the Protection and Use of Transboundary Watercourses and International Lakes entered into force in 1996, and has been extended by two protocols. An amendment entered into effect in February 2013 that opened the Water Convention to extra-regional members. Accordingly, by February 2024 the Water Convention had 52 states parties, including nine from Africa and one (Panama) from Latin America. Meeting in Budapest, Hungary, in November 2015, states parties to the Water Convention endorsed a reporting mechanism relating to the implementation of the provisions of the Convention. The mechanism was also to be used for monitoring progress in achieving SDG 6, on ensuring the availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all, and its associated target, 6.5, concerning the implementation of integrated water resources management. An Astana, Kazakhstan-based International Water Assessment Centre was inaugurated in December 2017, to support collaboration in the implementation of the Water Convention.</p>
                    <p usage="eerca">
          Following the ratification by Moldova in January 2013 and by Ukraine in June 2017 of a bilateral Treaty on Cooperation in the Field of Protection and Sustainable Development of the Dniester River Basin (signed in November 2012 during the sixth conference of parties to the Water Convention), a 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-OTHER.ENV.01">Commission on the Sustainable Use and Protection of the Dniester River Basin</xr>
           (`Dniester Commission’) was inaugurated in 2018.
        </p>
                    <p usage="edio casee">In May 2022 UNECE helped to organize a meeting of representatives from the energy, water and environment sectors of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, and Serbia, which agreed a Nexus Roadmap for the Drin River Basin. This addressed flow regulation, wastewater treatment, sediment management, sustainable renewable energy, information exchange, infrastructure and agricultural development.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-ECE.251" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Forests</heading>
               <p>
        UNECE's Committee on Forests and the Forestry Industry works closely with the European Forestry Commission (of the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.1742">Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN</xr>
        —FAO) to promote sustainable forest management. It compiles data and analyses long-term trends and prospects for forestry and timber; keeps under review developments in the forest industries, including environmental and energy-related aspects; and publishes an annual market review of forest products. The Committee meets annually to review the programme, as well as to discuss policy and market trends and outlook. Assistance in the form of workshops and expert advice is provided to support forestry sector development in countries that are undergoing economic transition. The first UNECE/FAO report on the state of forest ownership in the UNECE region was published in December 2018. UNECE and FAO provided technical assistance to the fifth comprehensive study on sustainable forestry management in the region, 
        <publ-name>State of Europe’s Forests 2020,</publ-name>
         which was published in December 2020; the study reported that Europe’s forested area had increased by 9% over the past 30 years, and covered more than 30% of the continent’s land area. In March 2021 UNECE and FAO jointly launched INForest, an online repository of data on the forestry sector.
      </p>
               <p>
        In May 2019 UNECE and FAO issued 
        <publ-name>Guidelines for the Development of a Criteria and Indicator Set for Sustainable Forest Management</publ-name>
        .
      </p>
               <p>UNECE promotes the particular importance of urban forestry, and recognizes the significant impact of trees on the health of city dwellers. Under the first phase of a UNECE Trees in Cities Challenge, covering 2019-24, commitments were being made by municipalities to create greener and more climate-resilient and sustainable urban environments. Examples included broadening the canopy extent of public trees by halting pruning, and planting urban micro `Miyawaki forests’. An Informal Network of Experts on Sustainable Urban Forestry, established by UNECE in October 2021, meets regularly to share knowledge and best practices.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-ECE.834" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Housing and Land Management</heading>
               <p>UNECE’s Committee on Urban Development, Housing and Land Management (CUDHLM) works to improve housing conditions, spatial planning and land administration policy. In particular, it promotes the provision of adequate housing in deprived areas. The Committee and its Working Party on Land Administration review, prepare guidance, and conduct subregional workshops and seminars on urban renewal, condominium management, housing finance, land administration, social housing, and energy efficiency in housing. A Geneva UN Charter on Sustainable Housing, advocating for decent and affordable housing in the UNECE region, was endorsed in April 2015 by the Commission’s 66th session. Subsequently, Centres of Excellence have been established, within specialized institutions, to promote implementation of the Charter’s principles of environmental protection, economic effectiveness, social inclusion and participation, and cultural adequacy.</p>
               <p usage="edio casee eerca">In May 2016 UNECE and the International Telecommunication Union jointly launched the United for Smart Sustainable Cities—U4SSC—initiative, tasked with advocating for public policy that promotes the use of information and communication technologies, with the aim of facilitating the transition to smart sustainable cities. The seventh U4SSC meeting was convened in June 2023.</p>
               <p usage="edio casee eerca">
        In November 2017 UNECE member states adopted the Geneva Ministerial Declaration on Sustainable Housing and Urban Development. This noted ongoing challenges in the region—such as the increasingly ageing population, impacts of urban expansion, and the doubling during 2010-15 of refugee inflows—and committed to promoting the implementation of, 
        <i>inter alia</i>
        , the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the New Urban Agenda of UN-Habitat and the Geneva UN Charter on Sustainable Housing. In April 2019 UNECE’s 68th session included a high-level segment on `Smart Sustainable Cities: Drivers for Sustainable Development’.
      </p>
               <p>In October 2022 UNECE’s CUDHLM adopted a San Marino Declaration, establishing principles, for use by urban planners, architects, city mayors and developers, in support of sustainable, safe, healthy, socially inclusive, climate-neutral and circular homes, urban infrastructure and cities. In January 2023 a Forum of Mayors (first convened in October 2020) was formally incorporated as a subsidiary body of the Committee. The fourth Forum of Mayors was to be organized in October 2024, in Geneva.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio eerca">In April 2022 UNECE established a UN4Kharkiv Task Force, comprising several UN agencies, which aimed to support the rebuilding of Kharkiv and other Ukrainian cities that had been devastated by the Russian military invasion of that country. Five pilot projects, as part of an architect-led reconstruction master plan, were announced in December.</p>
               <!--https://www.unece.org/housing/committee80thsession.html-->
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-ECE.2221" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Population</heading>
               <p>
        UNECE tracks demographic and societal change through its Population Unit. UNECE’s intergovernmental working group on ageing, established on an ad hoc basis in December 2008, was given a continuous mandate from early 2019 as the Standing Working Group on Ageing (SWGA). UNECE Guidelines on Mainstreaming Ageing (i.e. into all levels of relevant policy) were released in March 2021. A UNECE Ministerial Conference on Ageing was convened in June 2022, in Rome, Italy, in the framework of the fourth regional review of the 2002 Madrid International Plan of Action on Ageing and its Regional Implementation Strategy. A 
        <publ-name>Policy Brief on Ageing</publ-name>
         was published in June 2023.
      </p>
               <p usage="casee">In March 2020 UNECE reported that, while only 2%-4% of children below the age of five in the region were underweight, a significant minority (5%-15%) were overweight—with this trend particularly evident in some countries in the Western Balkans.</p>
               <p>In March 2024 UNECE organized a Regional Review of efforts to implement the UN Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration. The meeting gave particular focus to improving the collection and use of data on international migration statistics.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-ECE.223" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Statistics</heading>
               <p>The Conference of European Statisticians (CES) and UNECE’s Statistical Division have the task of co-ordinating international statistical activities in the region, by reviewing the most topical statistical areas and identifying gaps and duplication. The CES plenary sessions and seminars offer a forum for the development of new standards, guidelines and recommendations for senior statisticians from member states of UNECE and other agencies, such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). The CES also includes representation from Brazil, China, Colombia, Mongolia, the Philippines and South Africa. The CES and the Statistical Division work to develop ­methodology in compiling, harmonizing and disseminating economic, social and demographic statistics. The UNECE Knowledge Hub on Statistics for SDGs, established in December 2019, offers technical guidelines and tools for national statistics offices. A UNECE Dashboard for SDGs, initiated in March 2020, collates national data relating to 80 indicators of relevance to the region, across all of the Goals. A High-level Working Group co-ordinates a project focused on the modernization of official statistics. In April 2020 a UNECE online platform was initiated to guide producers of official statistics throughout the region in meeting challenges and new developments generated by the COVID-19 crisis. In May, taking into account increasing risk associated with trends such as rapid urbanization and climate change-related hazardous events, UNECE issued new recommendations on using data and statistics in disaster risk management. An updated UNECE Road Map on Statistics for SDGs was released in February 2022. A project was initiated in January 2023 to update the CES Recommendations for Population and Housing Censuses.</p>
               <p usage="eerca">
                    <publ-name>Generic Law on Official Statistics</publ-name>
        , released by UNECE in 2016, with a geographical focus on countries in Eastern Europe, the Caucasus and Central Asia, detailed and set out the societal benefits of shared elements of statistical legislation.
      </p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-ECE.90" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Sustainable Energy</heading>
               <p>Through its Committee on Sustainable Energy (which has subsidiary expert groups on resource management, a cleaner electricity system, coal mine methane, energy efficiency, gas, and renewable energy), and its subsidiary bodies and projects, UNECE works to promote a sustainable energy development strategy for the region. Focal areas include advancing labelling classification systems and related legal and policy frameworks; the liberalization of energy markets, pricing policies and supply security; harmonization of energy policies and practices; cleaner energy production; and interconnection of the energy infrastructure. UNECE’s Group of Experts on Renewable Energy promotes the development and uptake of renewable energy sources in the region, sharing best practices and facilitating dialogue on regulations and policy.&#160;In September 2017 the Committee on Sustainable Energy adopted a series of Specifications for the Application of the UNFC to Bioenergy Resources, and in September 2019 the Expert Group on Resource Management’s sub-group on wind energy endorsed a series of specifications for the application of the UNFC to wind energy resources. In May 2019 UNECE updated a recommendation on adequate fuel quality (initially adopted in 2012) to take account of current vehicle emissions standards. In September 2022 the Committee on Sustainable Energy resolved to develop specifications for the application of the UNFC to hydrogen. UNECE has developed a Carbon Neutrality Toolkit to support policymakers in the transition from reliance on fossil fuels to a low- or zero-carbon energy sector.</p>
               <p usage="eerca">In mid-2023 UNECE and partners initiated a project, to be implemented in Armenia, Georgia, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Tajikistan, Ukraine and Uzbekistan, aimed at enhancing the energy efficiency of the global building supply chain industry.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio ">UNECE and the other four regional commissions helped to organize the 12th International Forum on Energy for Sustainable Developmentm convened in a hybrid format (partly virtual and partly in-person) during 1 September-30 November 2022.</p>
               <!--Declaration details in ESCAP-->
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-ECE.88" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Trade</heading>
               <p>
        UNECE’s trade programme focuses on the facilitation of international trade by means of simpler and better integrated trade procedures, electronic business methods, common agricultural quality standards, and the harmonization of technical regulations. An interagency Steering Committee on Trade Capacity and Standards meets annually. UNECE’s Working Party on Agricultural Quality Standards develops and updates commercial quality standards for fruit, vegetables and other agricultural products, in co-operation with the OECD, and promotes the application of these standards through regional seminars and workshops. The Working Party on Regulatory Co-operation and Standardization Policy aims to harmonize product regulations and standards, and has developed an international model for technical harmonization. The 
        <publ-name>UNECE Regional Report on Digital and Sustainable Trade Facilitation 2021</publ-name>
         was issued in October of that year.
      </p>
               <p>
        The UN Centre for Trade Facilitation and Electronic Business (CEFACT) was established in 2002 as a subsidiary intergovernmental entity of UNECE. It works to facilitate international transactions by simplifying and harmonizing procedures, as well as to enhance the transparency of supply chains. A fifth edition of a UN Global Survey on Digital and Sustainable Trade Facilitation was compiled during January-June 2023 by the five UN Regional Commissions and 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.1275">UNCTAD</xr>
        . In 2024 CEFACT was researching means of using artificial intelligence (AI) to facilitate trade processes.
      </p>
               <p>In May 2019 a Declaration on Gender Responsive Standards and Standards Development, formulated by UNECE, was signed by some 50 organizations, including international, regional and national standards bodies. UNECE maintains a series of Indicators of Gender Equality, and a Gender Database. In February 2020 UNECE urged an acceleration of the closure of the gender pay gap across the region, noting that, on average, men in member states were paid 16% more than women in terms of hourly rates, and received 21% higher monthly earnings.</p>
               <p usage="casee eerca">In January 2018 the inaugural meeting was convened of a UNECE intergovernmental Team of Specialists (ToS) on Sustainable Fisheries, tasked with addressing overfishing and illegal, unreported or unregulated fishing.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-ECE.21" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Transport</heading>
               <p>UNECE promotes coherent, efficient, safe and sustainable transport systems. It hosts the secretariat of the Inland Transport Committee, an intergovernmental forum to promote co-operation, as well as the formulation and negotiation of numerous international agreements, conventions, norms and standards relating to road, rail, inland water and combined transport. These international legal instruments, which are developed by specialized intergovernmental working parties with participation from, among others, equipment manufacturers, transport experts and consumers, include measures for improving vehicle safety, limiting vehicle emissions, simplifying border crossing procedures, improving road traffic safety, setting the conditions for developing coherent infrastructure networks, and providing for the safe transport of dangerous goods.</p>
               <p>
        In April 2020 UNECE issued guidance on good practice in mobility management, covering, 
        <i>inter alia,</i>
         sustainable home to work mobility; home to school/university; major events; sustainable urban logistics and mobility plans; car parking management; on-demand transport options to reduce car dependency in sparsely populated areas; and improving communications and raising awareness on sustainable mobility possibilities.
      </p>
               <p>
        A Transport, Health and Environment Pan-European Programme (PEP), run jointly between UNECE and the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.2461">World Health Organization’s Europe Office</xr>
         addresses the integration of environment and health concerns into transport policy, spatial planning, the health impacts of transport, and the promotion of sustainable urban transport, and of cycling and walking. A PEP Academy offers relevant guidance to policy makers and other key stakeholders.&#160;In May 2021 regional ministers responsible for transport, health and the environment issued the Vienna Declaration on promoting clean, safe and healthy transport. In 2024 so-called PEP Partnerships covered Health Economic Assessment Tools (supporting the development of practical tools for estimating the economic value of the health impacts of regular walking or cycling); Active Mobility (promoting implementation of a Pan-European Master Plan for Cycling Promotion that was adopted in May 2021, and aiming to develop a similar plan on active mobility); Child- and Youth-friendly Mobility; Eco-Driving; Jobs in Green and Healthy Transport; Integration of Transport, Health and Environmental Objectives into Urban and Spatial Planning; and Sustainable Tourism Mobility.
      </p>
               <p>In May 2019 the parties to the (as it was then named) European Agreement Concerning the International Transport of Dangerous Goods by Road (ADR)—which was drafted under UNECE auspices and entered into effect in 1968—determined that the designation `European’ should be removed from the ADR’s name, from 1 January 2021, with a view to characterizing it clearly as a global agreement and thereby prompting further accessions by non-European countries. Further updates to the Agreement (`ADR 2023’) entered into effect on 1 January 2023.</p>
               <p>The intergovernmental UNECE Working Party for Road Traffic Safety was established in 1988. UNECE hosts a UN Road Safety Fund (UNRSF, established in April 2018), and also provides secretarial services to the UN’s Special Envoy on Road Safety. In October 2021 UNECE published a global plan to support the UN Decade of Action on Road Safety (2021-30). During a High-level Meeting on Global Road Safety, convened in June 2022 at UN Headquarters in New York, some US $15m. was pledged to support UNRSF projects in low- and middle-income countries during 2022-25.</p>
               <p>UNECE’s World Forum for Harmonization of Vehicle Regulations has global participation and meets twice a year. In March 2016 amendments to the 1968 Vienna Convention on Road Traffic entered into force that permitted the use of strictly controlled automated driving technologies in traffic.</p>
               <p usage="casee eerca">In February 2019 the Inland Transport Committee adopted a Convention on the Facilitation of Border Crossing Procedures for Passengers, Luggage and Load-Luggage carried in international Traffic by Rail, which aimed to shorten journey times for train passengers on international journeys, in particular in Europe and Asia. The Convention was opened for signature in April.</p>
               <p>In January 2023 an electronic `eTIR’ procedure was added to UNECE’s 1975 Customs Convention on the International Transport of Goods under Cover of TIR Carnets, providing a customs transit system across Europe and into North Africa and the Middle East. The TIR system had more than 33,000 authorized users by 2024.</p>
               <p>UNECE addresses transport trends and economics, and compiles transport statistics. In February 2018 UNECE issued international technical standards to support the creation and exchange of electronic consignment notes for the international transport of goods by road. A UNECE Roadmap to harmonize the development and use of intelligent transport systems in member countries was endorsed by the Inland Transport Committee in February 2021.</p>
               <p>
        In 2005 a Master Plan was elaborated for investment in the Trans-European Motorway (TEM) and the Trans-European Railway (TER) projects, with the aim of improving the road and rail networks in 21 Central, Eastern and South-Eastern European countries. Another project, undertaken jointly with ESCAP, aims to develop Euro-Asian transport links. A third revised edition of UNECE’s Working Party on Inland Water Transport’s 
        <publ-name>Inventory of Main Standards and Parameters of the Pan-European Inland Waterway Network</publ-name>
         (the so-called 
        <publ-name>Blue Book</publ-name>
        ) was published in October 2017.
      </p>
               <p>
        Since 2022 UNECE has hosted a prototype Transport Data Commons database, offering cost-free, publicly available access to data on transport and climate change. In February 2023 UNECE and the Islamic Development Bank initiated an internet-based International Transport Infrastructure Observatory, hosting data on, 
        <i>inter alia,</i>
         rail and road infrastructure, ports, inland waterways, intermodal terminals and border crossing points in 79 countries in Europe, North Africa, the Middle East and Asia.
      </p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.956" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Finance</heading>
          <p id="IO-UN.957">The proposed appropriation for UNECE's regular budget in 2024 was US&#160;$39.9m.</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.958" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Publications</heading>
          <publ-list>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Annual Report</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Road Map on Statistics for SDGs</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
          </publ-list>
          <p id="IO-UN.959">Statistical bulletins, policy briefs, reports, performance reviews, country profiles, standards, recommendations, discussion papers, guidelines and manuals.</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <!--8.iv.24 - 5,253 words-->
</int-org-entry>