<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="ECOWAS.IO" id-root="ecowas.io" iso="ecowas.io" original-filename="wb02043.txt" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio ass"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>Economic Community of West African States</org-entry-name>
               <abbr>ECOWAS</abbr>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">MAJOR NON-UN ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ass">REGIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE">Economic Community of West African States</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>ECOWAS Executive Secretariat, 101 Yakubu Gowon Crescent, PMB 401, Asokoro, Abuja, Nigeria</verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <telephone alsofax="N">(9) 3147647</telephone>
               <fax>(9) 3147646</fax>
               <email>info@ecowas.int</email>
               <internet>www.ecowas.int</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p id="ECOWAS.IO.5">The Treaty of Lagos, establishing ECOWAS, was signed in May 1975, with the aim of promoting trade, co-operation and self-reliance in West Africa. A revised ECOWAS treaty, to accelerate economic integration and to strengthen political co-operation, was signed in July 1993. This incorporated new provisions for ECOWAS to co-operate in the maintenance of regional peace and security.</p>
          <int-org-section id="ECOWAS.IO.91" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Members</heading>
               <table-block-simple id="ECOWAS.IO.113" type="OTHER">
                    <table pgwide="NO" style="WITHOUT-RULES">
                         <tgroup cols="3">
                              <colspec colwidth="6.7cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="6.7cm" />
                              <colspec colname="COLSPEC0" colwidth="6.70cm" />
                              <tbody>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Benin</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Ghana</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                  Niger
                  <endnoteref idref="ECOWAS.IO.MALI.1" ref-symbol="*" />
                                        </entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                  Burkina Faso
                  <endnoteref idref="ECOWAS.IO.MALI.1" ref-symbol="*" />
                                        </entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                  Guinea
                  <endnoteref idref="ECOWAS.IO.MALI.1" ref-symbol="*" />
                                        </entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Nigeria</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Cabo Verde</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Guinea-Bissau</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Senegal</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Côte d'Ivoire</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Liberia</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Sierra Leone</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">The Gambia</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                  Mali
                  <endnoteref idref="ECOWAS.IO.MALI.1" ref-symbol="*" />
                                        </entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Togo</entry>
                                   </row>
                              </tbody>
                         </tgroup>
                    </table>
                    <endnote id="ECOWAS.IO.MALI.1" ref-symbol="*">On 31 May 2021, following the overthrow by the Malian military of the leadership of Mali’s transitional administration, that country’s membership of ECOWAS was suspended; Guinea’s membership was suspended on 8 September, also following a military coup. On 28 January 2022 Burkina Faso was also suspended in response to the overthrow of its democratically elected Government by the military. In January 2024 the military leaderships of Mali, Niger and Burkina Faso collectively announced the withdrawal from ECOWAS of all three countries `with immediate effect’; ECOWAS stated at that time that no formal notification to this effect had been received, and that withdrawal from the organization required a notice period of up to one year. In early February Mali’s leadership claimed that the country would not be bound by that time constraint</endnote>
               </table-block-simple>
               <p usage="ass edio">Note: A high-level committee was established in December 2017 to consider applications by Morocco, for full membership, Mauritania, for associate membership, and Tunisia, for observer status. All applications remained pending in 2024.</p>
               <!--~ Algeria expressed an interest in joining, - in Dec. 18-->
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="ECOWAS.IO.92" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <heading-note>April 2024</heading-note>
          <int-org-section id="ECOWAS.IO.93" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Authority of Heads of State and Government</heading>
               <p id="ECOWAS.IO.21">The Authority is the supreme decision-making organ of the Community, with responsibility for its general development and realization of its objectives. The Chairperson is elected annually by the Authority from among the member states. The Authority meets at least once a year in ordinary session, and holds extraordinary summit meetings as required. The 64th ordinary session was convened in December 2023, in Abuja; an extraordinary summit was held in February 2024.</p>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Chairperson</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Bola Ahmed</forename>
                                        <surname>Tinubu</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>President of Nigeria</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="ECOWAS.IO.94" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Council of Ministers</heading>
               <p id="ECOWAS.IO.22">The Council meets at least twice a year, and is responsible for the running of the Community; the chairmanship is held by a minister from the same member state as the Chair. of the Authority.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="ECOWAS.IO.95" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>ECOWAS Commission</heading>
               <p id="ECOWAS.IO.23">The Commission comprises seven members: a President, a Vice-President, an Auditor-General, and Commissioners for: Economic Affairs and Agriculture; Human Development and Social Affairs; Infrastructure, Energy and Digitalization; and Political Affairs, Peace, and Security. The members are elected for a four-year term, which may be renewed once only.</p>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="ECOWAS.IO.24" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>President</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Dr</title>
                                        <forename>Omar Alieu</forename>
                                        <surname>Touray</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>The Gambia</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="ECOWAS.IO.97" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>ECOWAS Parliament</heading>
               <p id="ECOWAS.IO.44">The inaugural session of the ECOWAS Parliament, based in Abuja, Nigeria, was held in November 2000. The Parliament has 115 seats, and each member is elected for a four-year term. The first ordinary session of the Parliament’s fifth legislature opened in May 2021. There is a co-ordinating administrative bureau, comprising a speaker and four deputy speakers.</p>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="ECOWAS.IO.45" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Speaker</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Sidie Mohamed</forename>
                                        <surname>Tunis</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Sierra Leone</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="ECOWAS.IO.98" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>ECOWAS Court of Justice</heading>
               <p id="ECOWAS.IO.46">The Court of Justice, established in January 2001, is based in Abuja, and comprises five judges who hold (non-renewable) tenure for four years.</p>
               <p usage="ass">A Memorandum of Understanding between the ECOWAS Court and the African Union’s African Court on Human and People’s Rights was concluded in March 2018, and was extended in June 2023 for a further five years. The second Judicial Dialogue between the two courts was convened in June 2023, in Arusha, Tanzania.</p>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="ECOWAS.IO.47" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <!--~ Asante re-elected for 2 further years on 13.x.22-->
                         <dir-entry-name>President</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Edward</forename>
                                        <surname>Amoako Asante</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Ghana</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
                    <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Registrar</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Dr</title>
                                        <forename>Yaouza</forename>
                                        <surname>Ouro-Sama</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="ECOWAS.IO.100" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Activities</heading>
          <p usage="ass">ECOWAS promotes regional co-operation and development in economic, social and cultural activities. It is committed to abolishing all obstacles to the free movement of people, services and capital, and to promoting harmonization of agricultural policies; common projects in marketing, research and the agriculturally based industries; joint development of economic and industrial policies and elimination of disparities in levels of development; and common monetary policies.</p>
          <p id="ECOWAS.IO.54" usage="ass">A revised treaty for the Community was drawn up by an ECOWAS Committee of Eminent Persons in 1991-92, and was signed at the ECOWAS summit conference that took place in Cotonou, Benin, in July 1993. The treaty designated the achievement of a common market and a single currency as economic objectives, while in the political sphere it envisaged the establishment of an ECOWAS parliament, an economic and social council, and an ECOWAS court of justice to enforce Community decisions. The treaty also formally assigned the Community with the responsibility of preventing and settling regional conflicts. At a summit meeting held in Abuja, Nigeria, in August 1994, ECOWAS heads of state and of government signed a protocol agreement for the establishment of a regional parliament. The meeting also adopted a Convention on Extradition of non-political offenders. The new ECOWAS treaty entered into effect in August 1995. A draft protocol providing for the creation of a mechanism for the prevention, management and settlement of conflicts, and for the maintenance of peace in the region, was approved by ECOWAS heads of state and of government in December 1999. In December 2000 Mauritania, a founding member, withdrew from the Community.</p>
          <p usage="edio">In June 2017 the ECOWAS Authority agreed in principle to consider integrating Morocco (already an observer state) as a full member of the organization. In December the ECOWAS Authority established a high-level committee to supervise a comprehensive study on the implications of Morocco’s application, as well as of ongoing applications by Mauritania, for associate membership, and by Tunisia, for observer status. Morocco’s still pending application was not included on the agenda of subsequent sessions of the ECOWAS Authority.</p>
          <p>In December 2021 the ECOWAS Authority approved a new ECOWAS Vision 2050, focused on the following pillars: peace, security and stability; governance and rule of law; economic integration and interconnectivity; transformation and inclusive and sustainable development; and social inclusion.</p>
          <p>The so-called ECOWAS 4x4 Strategic Plan for 2022-26 had the following four strategic objectives: (i) Enhanced regional peace and security (to be achieved by building capacity for early warning, mediation, rapid response activities, and peace-building); (ii) Deeper integration (including strengthening intra-ECOWAS trade, free movement and monetary union); (iii) good governance; and (iv) inclusive and sustainable development (with a focus on social affairs, energy, infrastructure and the environment).</p>
          <int-org-section id="ECOWAS.IO.101" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Economic Affairs and Agriculture</heading>
               <p>
        In 1990 ECOWAS heads of state and of government agreed to adopt measures that would create a single monetary zone and remove barriers to trade in goods that originated in the Community. It was announced in September 1992 that, as part of efforts to enhance monetary co-operation and financial harmonization in the region, the West African Clearing House was to be restructured as the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="ECOWAS.IO.85">West African Monetary Agency (WAMA),</xr>
         tasked with administering an ECOWAS exchange rate system and establishing the single monetary zone. In July 1996 the Authority agreed to impose a common value-added tax on consumer goods, in order to rationalize indirect taxation and to stimulate greater intra-Community trade. Regional travellers' cheques entered into circulation on 1 July 1999. These were issued by WAMA in denominations of a West African Unit of Account and convertible into each local currency at the rate of one Special Drawing Right (see 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.2193">International Monetary Fund</xr>
        —IMF).
      </p>
               <p>
        In April 2000 seven member states—Cabo Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria and Sierra Leone—issued the Accra Declaration, in which they agreed to establish a second West African monetary union (the West African Monetary Zone—WAMZ) to co-exist initially alongside the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="FRANC.IO.30">Union Econo­mique et Monétaire Ouest-Africaine—UEMOA,</xr>
         which unites eight, mainly francophone, ECOWAS member states. As preconditions for adopting a single currency and common monetary and exchange rate policy, the member states of the second West African monetary union were to attain a number of economic and fiscal criteria, under the supervision of a newly established ECOWAS Convergence Council, comprising member states' ministers responsible for finance and central bank governors. The two complementary monetary unions were expected to harmonize their economic programmes, with a view to effecting an eventual merger, as outlined in an action plan adopted by ECOWAS and 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="FRANC.IO.30">UEMOA</xr>
         in February 2000. The ECOWAS Authority summit held in December, in Bamako, Mali, adopted an Agreement Establishing the WAMZ, approved the establishment of a 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="ECOWAS.IO.86.5">West African Monetary Institute</xr>
         to prepare for the formation of a central bank, and determined that the harmonization of member countries' tariff structures should be accelerated to facilitate the implementation of the planned customs union. In December 2001 the Authority authorized the establishment during 2002 of an exchange rate mechanism for the proposed region-wide currency; this was achieved in April.
      </p>
               <p>Owing to slower than anticipated progress in achieving the convergence criteria required for monetary union, successive deadlines for the inauguration of the WAMZ and launch of the single currency were not met. In October 2011 the Convergence Council adopted supplementary acts to facilitate the process of establishing a single currency. In July 2014 the ECOWAS Commission announced that it had reduced the required macroeconomic convergence criteria for the WAMZ monetary union from 11 to six member states, in order to expedite the process. An ECOWAS common economic, monetary and financial database (ECOBASE), initiated in 2014, was designed to harmonize regional statistical data, in order to advance the monitoring of macroeconomic convergence. In February 2014 a Presidential Task Force was established to further the single currency project (initially comprising the heads of state of Ghana and Niger, the ministers of finance of those countries and ECOWAS central bank governors, later expanded to include the presidents and finance ministers of Côte d’Ivoire, Nigeria and Togo). At its fifth meeting, held in the Ghanaian capital, Accra, in February 2018, the Task Force urged renewed determination among member states to implement the single currency by 2020 and approved a revised roadmap to achieve that deadline. In December 2018 the ECOWAS Authority authorized the establishment of a committee to name and approve a symbol for the proposed future single currency; the name `eco’ was selected in July 2019. In December the Authority determined that the ECOWAS central bank would be named the Central Bank of West Africa. On 22 December the UEMOA member states and France adopted an agreement that (upon entry into force) would rename the then UEMOA currency (the franc CFA) as the eco, and would reduce its ties to the French Government.</p>
               <p>In April 2020 the ECOWAS Authority requested the Convergence Council to give consideration to the implications for regional macroeconomic convergence of the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. In September the Authority confirmed that the launch of the common currency in member states would be postponed, stating that the overriding immediate priority of member states was to revive their economies. It tasked the Commission with supporting the efforts of member states to ensure the suspension of debt servicing obligations, and with negotiating a reduction in the cost of transfers of remittances to member states by the West African diaspora. It was reported in June 2022 that a new deadline of 2027 had been set for the launch of the single currency. In July 2023 the 63rd meeting of the ECOWAS Authority mandated the ECOWAS Commission to establish a High-level Committee, including participation by representatives of ECOWAS and UEMOA, and the Governor of the BCEAO, to outline practical proposals for the introduction of the eco.</p>
               <p>In March 2013 ECOWAS ministers responsible for finance endorsed a five-band regional common external tariff (CET) regime, covering some 5,899 tariff lines, under which a rate of 5% duty was to be applied to 2,146 lines designated as basic raw materials and capital goods; 10% to 1,373 lines designated as intermediate products; and a 20% tariff would be levied on 2,165 lines categorized as final consumer products. A new 1.5% community integration levy was to replace the existing ECOWAS community levy and UEMOA community solidarity levy, to help to ensure uniformity in port charges. In January of that year a new West African Capital Markets Integration Council was inaugurated, tasked with governing the integration of regional capital markets, and envisaged as a pillar of a proposed West African Common Investment Market. An extraordinary summit of the ECOWAS Authority, convened in October, in Dakar, Senegal, endorsed the final structure of the CET. The CET entered into effect on 1 January 2015, and by 2024 was being implemented by Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal and Togo.</p>
               <!--effective application of the common external tariff from 1 Jan. 2017 by the whole of its 15 member states-->
               <p>In January 2003 Community heads of state and of government approved an intraregional ECOWAS Travel Certificate (passport); in 2024 member states were in the process of replacing this with a modernized system of ECOWAS national biometric identity cards. A Customs Code, drafted in consultation with regional governments, customs officials and the private sector, was adopted by ECOWAS heads of state and of government in December 2017. A Brown Card scheme provides recognized third-party liability insurance throughout the region. An ECOVISA project, aimed at harmonizing regional visa processes, was ongoing in 2024.</p>
               <p>In April 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic crisis, the Authority agreed that long-term treasury bills and bonds should be issued to finance critical investment needs, to support private sector activities, and to revive economies; that liquidity should be provided through central banks; and that assistance should be targeted to the social sector, for example, to ensure internet access and enhance the provision of distance learning tools, and to ensure social safety nets for the most vulnerable people. The Authority also agreed to mobilize additional resources from the international community; to support the African Union (AU) in calling for the cancellation of regional public debt and for the restructuring of private debt; urgently to implement measures aimed at supporting the local production of consumer goods, including agricultural products; to establish a support programme for the health protection equipment and pharmaceutical manufacturing sectors; to avoid imposing intra-regional import restrictions, especially on essential goods; to promote the acceleration of efforts to produce vaccines and effective therapies for COVID-19; and to ensure provision of eventual vaccines at subsidized prices.</p>
               <p>Economic growth in the ECOWAS region was estimated at 3.7% in 2023, compared with 3.9% in 2022 and 4.2% in 2021.</p>
               <p>
        An ECOWAS Trade Liberalization Scheme (ETLS) database; ECOWAS Commercial Information System (ECOTIS); and Business Information System (ECOBIZ) are maintained. In June 2020 the website was launched of a EU-funded West African Competitiveness Programme, which includes a West African Competitiveness Observatory, and is orchestrated at the regional level by the ECOWAS Commission, supported by 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="FRANC.IO.30">UEMOA.</xr>
         A draft Directive on Consumer Protection was under review in 2024.
      </p>
               <p>In November 2014 the Council of Ministers adopted a Regional Strategy for Private Sector Promotion. An ECOWAS Quality Agency was formally constituted in February 2018 during an inaugural ECOWAS Quality Infrastructure Forum, convened in Dakar. ECOWAS maintains an ECOWAS Quality and Industrial Database (ECOQUIB). In July 2021 the inaugural annual General Assembly was convened, in Abuja, of an ECOWAS Trade Promotion Organizations Network, tasked with working alongside the ECOWAS Commission to establish inclusive trade development initiatives throughout the region. In December the Authority adopted an ECOWAS Public Private Partnership (PPP) Policy, aimed at promoting alternative and innovative investment in the region. An ECOWAS Investment Climate Scorecard was initiated in June 2017, under an Improved Business and Investment Climate in West Africa project that aimed to identify national and regional barriers to investment, track national reforms to investment policy, and share relevant proposed reforms and good practice. In July 2020 ECOWAS launched a website in support of the project.</p>
               <p id="ECOWAS.IO.64" usage="ass">ECOWAS has a 10% share in a private regional investment bank, Ecobank Transnational Inc., which was founded in 1984 and is headquartered in Lomé.</p>
               <p usage="ass">In June 2010 the Council of Ministers adopted the West African Common Industrial Policy (WACIP) and a related action plan and supplementary acts. WACIP aimed to diversify and expand the regional industrial production base by supporting the creation of new industrial production capacities as well as developing existing capacities.</p>
               <p usage="ass">An ECOWAS automotive industry policy framework, aimed at enhancing member states’ national capacities in the areas of vehicle assembling, production and marketing, was validated by a ministerial meeting held in May 2019.</p>
               <p>In June 2019 the ECOWAS Authority adopted an ECOWAS Regional Tourism Policy (ECOTOUR), with a focus on developing the region as a competitive tourist destination; a supporting action plan was also adopted, covering the period 2019-29.</p>
               <p>From 2013 ECOWAS implemented a Business Incubators for African Women Entrepreneurs (BIAWE) project, with a particular focus on agri-business, agro-processing and handicrafts. In July 2018 ECOWAS, the East African Community and the Common Market for Eastern and Southern African States launched an African Development Bank-funded online women’s economic empowerment project, 50 Million African Women Speak (50MAWS), with the aim of providing financial and other information to women entrepreneurs.</p>
               <p>
        The Community enforces a certification scheme for facilitating the monitoring of animal movement and animal health surveillance and protection in the sub-region. A Togo-based ECOWAS Regional Agency for Agriculture and Food (RAAF) was established in September 2013, tasked with implementing the technical aspects of regional investment programmes on agriculture, forestry and livestock. A Regional Food Security Reserve was created in that year. The January 2005 Authority summit endorsed an ECOWAS Regional Agricultural Policy (ECOWAP). ECOWAP 2025, representing an updated version of ECOWAP, was initiated in November 2015. This was supported by a Regional Agricultural Investment and Food Security and Nutrition Plan (RAIFSNP) and National Agricultural Investment and Food Security and Nutrition Plans (NAIFSNPs—implemented by FAO and co-ordinated by the RAAF). ECOWAS and UEMOA jointly participate in a Food Crisis Prevention Network, which is co-ordinated by the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XB.IO.TXT.98">Permanent Interstate Committee on Drought Control in the Sahel,</xr>
         and supported by the OECD’s Sahel and West Africa Club. ECOWAS maintains an ECOWAS West Africa Agricultural Sector Information System (ECOAGRIS).
      </p>
               <p usage="ass">In February 2024 ECOWAS launched an emergency humanitarian response to provide basic food assistance to around 2,000 children under the age of five who were suffering malnutrition in Todee District, Liberia.</p>
               <p>In February 2012 ECOWAS established a Regional Animal Health Centre, hosted by Mali, in Bamako. In June 2022, through the Centre, ECOWAS launched a mass vaccination campaign in member states against Peste des Petits Ruminants, a very contagious disease affecting goats and sheep. The eighth annual meeting of ECOWAS Regional Animal Health Networks was held in September, in Cabo Verde. In October 2023 ECOWAS organized an Agriculture and Animal Resources Exhibition.</p>
               <p>A Subregional Action Programme for Combating Desertification in West Africa was initiated in September 2013. The inaugural ECOWAS Hydromet Forum was held in September 2018. In April 2021 the second Forum adopted an ECOWAS Disaster Risk Reduction Gender Strategy and Action Plan; an ECOWAS Flood Risk Management Strategy; and an ECOWAS Hydromet Initiative, which aimed to strengthen investment in systems that would build resistance against hydrological and meteorological risks. An ECOWAS Early Warning Strategic Plan was being implemented during 2022-26.</p>
               <p>In March 2010 ECOWAS ministers responsible for agriculture, the environment and water resources adopted a Framework of Strategic Guidelines on the Reduction of Vulnerability and Adaptability to Climate Change in West Africa, outlining the development of regional capacities to build up resilience and adaptation to climate change and severe climatic conditions. ECOWAS supports the development and implementation by member states of Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Actions. An ECOWAS Scientific and Technical Consultative Group on Climate Change (STCGCC) was established in February 2017. An ECOWAS Regional Climate Strategy was finalized in 2022.</p>
               <p>In September 2013 ECOWAS ministers responsible for forestry and wildlife, gathered in Abidjan, adopted a Convergence Plan for the Sustainable Management and Utilization of Forest Ecosystems in West Africa, to protect regional forests and woodlands, which cover a total surface area of about 72.1m. ha (representing some 14% of the total land area). In April 2019 ECOWAS, FAO (offering technical support) and the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (providing US&#8201;$8m. in funding) agreed collectively to implement a five-year project aimed at strengthening sustainable forest and land management, with a particular focus on transboundary forest threats, in support of the 2013 Convergence Plan.</p>
               <p>In July 2019 ECOWAS and UEMOA ministers responsible for the environment, and their counterpart from Mauritania, collectively launched a Programme of Support for the Preservation of Biodiversity and Fragile Ecosystems. In September 2020 the ECOWAS Authority welcomed the adoption of a regional environmental action plan for the period 2020-26.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="ECOWAS.IO.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Infrastructure, Energy and Digitalization</heading>
               <p>
        In December 2021 the Authority adopted a long-term ECOWAS Regional Infrastructure Master Plan to cover the period 2020-45. The plan was to support 201 projects with a projected total cost of US&#8201;$122,000m., and included, 
        <i>inter alia,</i>
         15 road schemes, 13 railway projects, 57 power generation investment initiatives and 31 power transmission projects. The establishment of a regional Fund for the Development and Financing of the Transport and Energy Sectors (FODETE) was endorsed by the Authority in 2009.
      </p>
               <p>In December 2007, following a recommendation by the Authority, a Togo-based regional airline, ASKY (Africa Sky) was established, which initiated operations in January 2010. In October 2011 West African ministers responsible for transport concluded a series of measures to establish a common regulatory regime for the airline industry in order to improve the viability of regional airlines and to support regional integration.</p>
               <p>A longstanding ECOWAS vision for the development of an integrated regional road network comprises the Trans-West African Coastal Highway, connecting Lagos with Nouakchott, Mauritania (4,767 km), and envisaged as the western part of an eventual Pan-African Highway; and the parallel Trans-Sahelian Highway, linking Dakar (Senegal) with N'Djamena, Chad (4,633 km). In November 2012 ECOWAS and the People’s Republic of China concluded an agreement on regional infrastructure development and economic co-operation, which incorporated Chinese support in advancing the Trans-West African Coastal Highway project. In July 2013 the inaugural meeting was convened of an ECOWAS steering committee to guide the implementation of the 1,028 km Abidjan-Lagos corridor road project, linking Lagos (Nigeria), Cotonou (Benin), Lomé (Togo), Accra (Ghana) and Abidjan (Côte d’Ivoire) as well as several other sea ports (forming a section of the Trans-West African Coastal Highway). In April 2014 the presidents of Benin, Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Nigeria and Togo signed a treaty providing for the establishment of an Abidjan-Lagos corridor management authority, and also providing for the harmonization of trade and transport facilitation procedures along that route, in areas such as customs control, immigration and maritime port facilities. In February 2019 the ECOWAS Commission established a project implementation unit to oversee the Abidjan-Lagos Corridor Highway Development Project; the 1st Roundtable of Development Financial Institutions for the construction of the Abidjan—Lagos Corridor Highway was organized in September 2023, in Abidjan, by ECOWAS and the African Development Bank. In April 2016 regional ministers responsible for infrastructure, roads and works adopted a Plan of Action for Dakar-Abidjan Corridor Development. A treaty concerning the establishment of a Praia (Cabo Verde)-Dakar-Abidjan Corridor was opened for signature in June 2017. Cabo Verde joined the scheme in late 2018, incorporating a maritime component. A Master Plan for Corridor Development for the West African Growth Ring (covering Cote d'Ivoire, Ghana, Togo and Burkina Faso) was finalized in 2019.</p>
               <!--~AfDB study on interconnection of region s railways-->
               <p usage="edio">In June 2020 a virtual meeting of a recently established Committee of Experts for Transport, Logistics, Free Movement and Trade in the Fight against the COVID-19 Pandemic strengthened guidelines aimed at the harmonization and facilitation of cross-border trade and transportation throughout the ECOWAS region.</p>
               <p>In April 2009 ministers responsible for the development of mineral resources endorsed an ECOWAS Directive on the Harmon­ization of Guiding Principles and Policies in the Mining Sector. An ad hoc committee convenes periodically to monitor the implementation of the Directive. The fourth session of an ECOWAS Mining and Petroleum Forum was organized in February 2024, in Cotonou.</p>
               <p>An ECOWAS Energy Protocol, establishing a legal framework for the promotion of long-term co-operation in the energy sector, was adopted in 2003. In May of that year the Community initiated the first phase of the West African Power Pool (ECOWAPP), to be implemented in Benin, Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Niger, Nigeria and Togo, at an estimated cost of US&#8201;$335m. A revised plan for the advancement of ECOWAPP was being implemented during the period 2019-33. An Accra-based ECOWAS Regional Electricity Regulatory Authority was established in 2008, and a Regional Centre for Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency (ECREEE) was inaugurated in 2009; ECREEE’s secretariat was established in July 2010, in Praia, Cabo Verde. In August 2022 an ECOWAS Regional Off-Grid Electricity Access Project (ROGEAP) was launched in Côte d'Ivoire and The Gambia. An ECOWAS Regional Electricity Code was finalized in that year.</p>
               <p>In May 2018 ECOWAS, UEMOA and the EU initiated a regional programme aimed at improving energy governance in West Africa. In December the ECOWAS Authority endorsed a Master Plan for the Development of Regional Power Generation and Transmission Infrastructure 2019-33, to address the ongoing energy deficit in the region. The eighth ECOWAS Sustainable Energy Forum was organized in October 2023, in Praia. It was envisaged that an updated ECOWAS Energy Policy would be finalized in that year.</p>
               <p>An ECOWAS Directive on Securitization of Payments Related to Cross-Border Power Trade in West Africa entered into effect on 1 January 2020. In February regional energy ministers, experts and World Bank representatives met to consider related policy.</p>
               <p>A 600 km West African Gas Pipeline—extending from Lagos, Nigeria, to Takoradi, Ghana—became operational in 2007. A study on the feasibility of extending the Pipeline was commissioned in 2015, and the proposed extension has subsequently remained under consideration.</p>
               <p>A West African Telecommunications Regulators' Assembly (WATRA) was established under ECOWAS auspices in November 2004. The January 2006 summit meeting of the Authority approved a Special Fund for Telecommunications to facilitate improvements to cross-border telecommunications connectivity. In January 2007 ECOWAS leaders adopted a regional telecommunications policy and a regulatory framework that covered areas including interconnection to ICT and services networks, licence regimes, and radio frequency spectrum management. In January 2020 ECOWAS technical experts validated a new ECOWAS Regional Cyber Security and Cybercrime Strategy. ECOWAS helped to organize the inaugural Cyber Africa Forum in June 2021, in Abidjan. In September 2023 the ECOWAS Commission initiated a Joint Platform for the Advancement of Cybersecurity in West Africa. ECOWAS supports the annual West Africa Internet Governance Forum (WAIGF).</p>
               <p>The inaugural meeting of an ECOWAS Regional Trade Facilitation Committee (established by the Authority in June 2021) was convened in February 2022, in Lomé (Togo). A Regional E-commerce Strategy was adopted in July 2023.</p>
               <p>In July 2023 the Council of Ministers endorsed an ECOWAS Implementation Strategy for the Agreement on the African Continental Free Trade Area (the AfCFTA—which entered into force in May 2019).</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="ECOWAS.IO.123.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Human Development and Social Affairs </heading>
               <p>In December 2018 ECOWAS experts on Science, Technology and Innovation (STI) from member states convened, in Cotonou, to address means of using STI in initiatives to advance sustainable development in the region. ECOWAS organized the inaugural African Forum for Research and Innovation in September 2022, in Abuja. In February 2020 the ECOWAS Commission inaugurated an ECOWAS Human Resources Training Centre, in Abuja. The Centre was to facilitate sharing knowledge and experience throughout member states, in collaboration with other regional human development stakeholders. A Technical Vocational Education and Training (TVET) Stakeholders’ Meeting that was organized by ECOWAS in September 2023, in Banjul, The Gambia, validated an ECOWAS TVET Strategy for Skills Improvement and Employability.</p>
               <p>The establishment of an ECOSOC Economic, Social and Cultural Council in West Africa (ECOSOCC-WA) was under consideration in early 2024.</p>
               <p usage="edio">An inaugural West African Arts and Cultural Festival (ECOFEST), on the theme `Culture as a catalyst for peace, diversity and economic and social integration in West Africa’, was to have taken place during 2020, but was postponed in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.</p>
               <p>In December 2019 the ECOWAS Authority approved a Regional Action Plan for the Return of African Cultural Artefacts to their Countries of Origin, covering the period 2019-23. The inaugural meeting of the monitoring committee for the Action Plan was convened in June 2021. An ECOWAS Youth and Sports Development Centre (EYSDC) was established in 2005.</p>
               <p usage="ass">
        In 2014 the ECOWAS Commission co-operated with member states and international partners, to control the spread of an outbreak of Ebola Virus Disease (EVD), which had emerged in Guinea in December 2013 and had soon spread to Liberia and Sierra Leone. At the beginning of August 2014 the ECOWAS Commission and the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="ECOWAS.IO.87">West African Health Organization</xr>
         (WAHO) established an Ebola Solidarity Fund, to support affected countries with controlling and eliminating the disease. A meeting of crisis communication and community mobilization experts, held in early October, in Accra, under the auspices of ECOWAS and WAHO, developed a co-ordinated regional emergency communication response strategy on Ebola. An extraordinary summit meeting of ECOWAS heads of state and of government that was convened in Accra in November determined to implement a regional roadmap on EVD eradication. In September 2019 the ECOWAS Commission organized a meeting to address the lingering economic impacts of the 2014 EVD crisis.
      </p>
               <p usage="ass">
        An extraordinary session of the ECOWAS Authority in April 2020, convened by videoconference, determined, 
        <i>inter alia,</i>
         to enhance co-operation between 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="ECOWAS.IO.87">WAHO</xr>
         and the AU’s Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC) and to encourage, where possible, the pooling of purchases of equipment and drugs to combat COVID-19. Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari was appointed as the organization’s coronavirus response co-ordinator, and—under his supervision—ministerial co-ordination committees were established to direct the regional pandemic response in the areas of health, finance and transport. 
      </p>
               <p>
        In September 2020 the ECOWAS Authority urged member states, the ECOWAS Commission and 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="ECOWAS.IO.87">WAHO</xr>
         urgently to advance the regional availability of COVID-19 vaccines and support for regional pharmaceutical industries. The President of the Commission was tasked with appointing a team of specialists to study the feasibility of producing COVID-19 vaccines locally. In February 2022 ECOWAS ministers responsible for health adopted a WAHO Vision 2030, which focused on accelerating access to inclusive, affordable quality healthcare in the region; advancing effective public health emergency preparedness; and promoting organizational excellence.
      </p>
               <p>The ECOWAS Commission and the International Labour Organization (ILO) undertake joint efforts to address the challenges of child labour in West Africa. The Commission has worked to harmonize relevant national action plans and has developed an ECOWAS Regional Action Plan for the Elimination of Child Labour.</p>
               <p>In May 2017 ECOWAS and UNHCR jointly organized a meeting at which an action plan was adopted that aimed to eradicate statelessness in West Africa. In August a meeting of ECOWAS heads of immigration services approved the establishment a Nigeria-based Migration Training Academy, with the aim of effectively managing migration and relevant emerging trends. ECOWAS member states participate in the Migration Dialogue for West Africa (MIDWA Process). MIDWA had seven thematic working groups in 2024, covering border management and cross-border crime; the West African diaspora, West African communities and/or nationals; professional mobility and student exchanges; climate change, land degradation, desertification, environment and migration; migration statistics and data; return, readmission and reintegration; and co-operation and partnership. The fourth MIDWA ministerial meeting, held in July 2020, addressed the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on free movement. In late September 2022 an ECOWAS mission was sent to Niger to investigate the situation of migrants trapped there while intending to head onwards to North Africa and Europe.</p>
               <p>The ECOWAS Gender Development Centre is based in Dakar. An ECOWAS Child Policy and Strategic Action Plan (2019-30), an ECOWAS Roadmap on Prevention and Response to Child Marriage, and an ECOWAS Declaration on and Common Position against Child Marriage were endorsed in June 2019 by the ECOWAS Authority. (In that year it was reported that nearly 49% of girls below 18 years were married in the region, and that in some member states, in spite of UN guidance, the legal age for marriage remained at below 18 years.) In October 2020 a Working Group Against Gender Based Violence/Violence Against Children was established.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-EC.REG.SEC.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Political Affairs, Peace and Security</heading>
               <p>In December 1999 ECOWAS heads of state and of government approved a draft protocol to the organization's treaty, providing for the establishment of a Permanent Mechanism for the Prevention, Management and Settlement of Conflicts and the Maintenance of Peace in the Region, an ECOWAS Peace Fund (EPF), and for the creation of a Mediation and Security Council, to comprise representatives of 10 member states, elected for two-year terms. The Council was to be supported by an advisory Council of Elders, initially comprising 32 eminent statesmen from the region; this was inaugurated in July 2001. A Supplementary ECOWAS Protocol on Democracy and Good Governance was adopted in that year. The Council of Elders was reconfigured, as a 15-member body with a representative from each member state, in January 2003. A new statute governing its work was adopted in May 2016. </p>
               <p>In January 2008 the ECOWAS Mediation and Security Council adopted an ECOWAS Conflict Prevention Framework (ECPF). ECPF national plans of action were initiated in ECOWAS member states in January 2019. In June 2016 ECOWAS heads of state and of government adopted the ECOWAS Political Framework for Security Sector Reform and Governance. An ECOWAS Peace and Security Architecture and Operations (EPSAO) initiative was launched in October 2019.</p>
               <p>In March 2008 an ECOWAS Network of Electoral Commissions (ECONEC), comprising heads of member states' institutions responsible for managing elections, was established, to provide electoral support to member states and also to serve as a regional platform for the exchange of best practices in the management of elections.</p>
               <p>An ECOWAS Warning and Response Network assesses threats to regional security. In June 2004 the Community approved the establishment of the ECOWAS Standby Force (ESF), comprising 6,500 troops, including a core rapid reaction compon­ent, the ECOWAS Task Force, numbering around 2,770 soldiers (deployable within 30 days). The ECOWAS Defence and Security Commission subsequently approved the operational framework for the ESF.</p>
               <p>In January 2005 the Authority approved the establishment of a Bamako-based humanitarian depot and of a Freetown, Sierra Leone-based logistics depot. An ECOWAS Emergency Response Team was established in 2007. An ECOWAS Model for National Disaster Management Agencies was agreed in October 2015 by the relevant ministers from member states.</p>
               <p>In June 2006 the Authority adopted the ECOWAS Convention on Small Arms and Light Weapons, their Ammunitions and other Materials, with the aim of regulating the importation and manufacture of such weapons. The ECOWAS Small Arms Control Programme was inaugurated in that month, based in Bamako, to improve the capacity of national and regional institutions to reduce the proliferation of small weapons across the region.</p>
               <p>
        In July 2009 ECOWAS, the UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), other UN agencies, and the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XE.IO.TXT.55">International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL)</xr>
         launched the West Africa Coast Initiative (WACI), which aimed to build national and regional capacities to combat drug trafficking and organized crime in, initially, four pilot post-conflict countries: Côte d'Ivoire, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia and Sierra Leone. In February 2010 the pilot countries signed the WACI-Freetown Commitment, endorsing the implementation of the initiative, and agreeing to establish specialized transnational crime units on their territories. WACI’s Programme Advisory Committee adopted a revised operational strategy for the Initiative in November 2015. In September 2016 ECOWAS and UNODC signed a Letter of Co-operation reaffirming their collaboration. In that month ECOWAS ministers responsible for justice and the interior adopted an Action Plan on the Fight against Illicit Drug Trafficking, related Organized Crime, Corruption and Terrorism, as well as Drug Abuse in West Africa. A West African Epidemiology Network on Drug Use (WENDU) project has national focal points in each member state, as well as in Mauritania. In March 2022 ECOWAS organized the inaugural Regional Multi-Stakeholder Dialogue on Addressing Transnational Organised Crime, at which a new West African Research Network on Organised Crime was launched.
      </p>
               <p>An ECOWAS Counter-Terrorism Strategy and Implementation Plan, and Political Declaration on a Common Position against Terrorism, were endorsed by the ECOWAS Authority in February 2013. Later in that year an ECOWAS Sahel Strategy Co-ordination Platform met for the first time, focused on means of combating weak governance, poverty, terrorism, organized crime and trafficking in the region A special solidarity fund to assist victims of terrorism was established by the Authority in December 2016. In December 2017 the Authority urged member states to increase information sharing and mutual intelligence as a means of combating terrorist networks active in the region. In this regard it instructed the ECOWAS Commission to monitor the effective implementation of the EU-supported West African Police Information System (WAPIS).</p>
               <p>
        ECOWAS and the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XB.IO.TXT.67">Communauté Economique des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale (CEEAC)</xr>
         held their first joint Summit on Peace, Security, Stability and the Fight against Terrorism and Violent Extremism in July 2018, in Lomé, Togo. The two organizations determined to conclude a mutual Criminal Cooperation Agreement, and to establish a ministerial committee to follow up future joint decisions on collaboration.
      </p>
               <p>In September 2019 an extraordinary ECOWAS summit on terrorism adopted a priority action plan to guide regional efforts to combat terrorism during 2020-24 (with a particular focus on the Sahel). The ECOWAS leaders determined to mobilize up to US&#8201;$1,000m. during the implementation of the plan, to be paid into a common fund, to support national and joint military action against terrorist groupings in the region. In February 2023 the ECOWAS Authority gave consideration to the future establishment of a Regional Force against Terrorism. The President of the ECOWAS Commission expressed his concern at the escalating insecurity in the region in an address to the UN Security Council in July, and appealed for an allocation of funding from the regular UN budget to support African-led peace operations. He reported at that time that during the first six months of 2023 some 2,725 terrorist attacks had taken place in Burkina Faso, 844 in Mali, 77 in Niger, and 70 in Nigeria, causing, in total, 4,593 recorded fatalities. Military chiefs of ECOWAS member states had reportedly proposed strengthening the organization’s military capabilities in response.</p>
               <p usage="edio ass">
        In May 2023 the ECOWAS Commission and the Secretariat of the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO.OTHER.GOVTSEC.ACCRAINITIATIVE.1">Accra Initiative</xr>
         agreed to co-ordinate their respective strategies focused on combating terrorism and transnational crime. (The Accra Initiative is a collective collaboration on combating security issues—such as terrorism, illegal mining, and drug and weapons trafficking—that was initiated in November 2017 by Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana and Togo. Mali and Niger subsequently joined as observers.)
      </p>
               <p>An €25.2m. ECOWAS Fund for Regional Stabilization and Development in Fragile Regions within Member States (FRSD), funded by the German Government, was operational during the period 1 March 2022-31 December 2025. In April 2023 Togo and Benin were selected to be beneficiary countries, in addition to The Gambia, Guinea-Bissau, Mali and Niger.</p>
               <p>
        In September 2023 the military leaders of Burkina Faso, Mali and Niger signed the Liptako-Gourma Charter, which established the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="OTHER-9.IO.ALLIANCESAHEL.1">Alliance of Sahel States</xr>
        , envisaged as a mutual defence pact to counter any military intervention by ECOWAS. In late January 2024 the military juntas of those countries jointly announced the withdrawal from ECOWAS of all three countries `with immediate effect’. On 22 February the President of the ECOWAS Commission circulated a letter from Gen. Yakubu Gowon, a former President of Nigeria and last surviving founder of ECOWAS, in which he stated deep concern and sadness over the decisions to withdraw, and noted significant past achievements of the ECOWAS co-operation format. He issued a passionate appeal on behalf of all the organization’s founding fathers for all the ECOWAS heads of state and government to put aside their differences for the sake of regional peace, stability and prosperity. He urged that sanctions against Burkina Faso, Guinea, Mali and Niger should be lifted, and that Burkina Faso, Mali and Niger should withdraw their notices to leave the organization. An extraordinary session of the ECOWAS Authority that was convened shortly afterwards—at which some sanctions were withdrawn (including all sanctions that had been imposed against Guinea)—listed several negative political, socioeconomic, financial and institutional impacts that would arise for Burkina Faso, Mali and Niger should they depart the organization. The Authority directed the ECOWAS Commission to expand outreach to the three non-co-operative states, including by engaging with traditional and religious leaders, civil society, women leaders, and eminent personalities. It also urged the prompt operationalization of the ECOWAS force to combat terrorism in the region.
      </p>
               <p>The President of the ECOWAS Commission participated in December 2022 in the US-Africa Leaders’ Summit that was convened in Washington, DC, USA. An ECOWAS-EU Political Dialogue was held in February 2023, in Brussels, Belgium.</p>
               <p usage="edio">In December 2016 the Authority designated 16 January henceforth to be the annual ECOWAS Human Rights Day.</p>
               <p-group>
                    <heading usage="edio ewyb ass">Burkina Faso</heading>
                    <p usage="ewyb edio ass">In late January 2022 ECOWAS condemned a military coup that had removed from power the democratically elected President of Burkina Faso, Roch Marc Christian Kaboré. An extraordinary session of the Assembly subsequently suspended Burkina Faso’s membership of the organization. A further extraordinary meeting, held in early February, called on the Burkinabè military regime to establish transitional authorities and a schedule that would facilitate the swiftest possible return to constitutional order. The ECOWAS Commission was instructed to establish a monitoring mechanism, including AU and UN participation, to address the situation continuously. In mid-February an interim military junta-appointed president, Lt-Col Paul-Henri Sandaogo Damiba, was inaugurated. A charter detailing a three-year schedule of transition to democratic elections (deemed too long by ECOWAS) was issued at the beginning of March, and an interim Prime Minister designated soon afterwards. In late March an extraordinary session of the ECOWAS Authority imposed punitive financial and economic sanctions against Burkina Faso. A further extraordinary session, held in early June, reiterated concern at the length of the transition period, and appointed former Nigerian President Mahamadou Issoufou as ECOWAS Mediator for Burkina Faso. In mid-June the Mediator undertook his first working visit to Burkina Faso; at that time he noted that 40% of Burkinabè territory was outside state control. A new timetable whereby the transition to constitutional rule would be completed in mid-2024 was endorsed in July 2022 by the ECOWAS Authority; the financial and economic sanctions imposed in March were consequently withdrawn at that time. At the beginning of October the ECOWAS Authority strongly condemned a new seizure of power in Burkina Faso, on 30 September, by Capt. Ibrahim Traore. Traore, who cited a worsening security situation as the root cause of the coup, subsequently committed to the ongoing timetable for a return to constitutional rule. An ECOWAS-Burkina Faso Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) underpinning the establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation Mechanism, to guide the transition process, was finalized in late 2022. A joint ECOWAS-AU technical assessment mission was dispatched to Burkina Faso at the end of January 2023. In February the ECOWAS Authority instructed the ECOWAS Commission to co-ordinate international partners that were supporting the efforts of ECOWAS and the Burkinabè transitional authorities to resolve the ongoing security, sociopolitical and humanitarian challenges in that country. In late January 2024 the military junta of Burkina Faso joined those of Niger and Mali in announcing a withdrawal from ECOWAS `with immediate effect’.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading usage="edio ass">The Gambia</heading>
                    <p usage="edio ass">In mid-December 2016 the Chairperson of the ECOWAS Authority led an inconclusive high-level mediating mission to The Gambia with a view to ensuring a peaceful transfer of power, following the rejection by that country’s incumbent head of state, Yahya Jammeh, of the results of a presidential election held at the beginning of that month. A second unsuccessful mission, led by President Buhari of Nigeria, took place in mid-January 2017. Buhari urged all parties to pursue inclusive dialogue and to respect the national Constitution. Jammeh, meanwhile, was attempting at that time to have the election results overturned by The Gambia’s Supreme Court, and on 18 January the Gambian legislature approved a decision by President Jammeh to impose a state of emergency and the extension by 90 days of Jammeh’s term of office. On the evening of 19 January—the scheduled presidential inauguration date, on which Adama Barrow (who had won the December 2016 election) was sworn in during a ceremony in neighbouring Senegal—ECOWAS member states deployed a 7,000-strong joint military force to The Gambia with an initial mandate to ensure the peaceful transfer of power to President Barrow. Following further mediation under ECOWAS auspices—led by (former) President Alpha Condé of Guinea and the President of Mauritania, Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz—Jammeh eventually agreed on 21 January 2017 to stand down, while refusing to acknowledge that he had been defeated in the December 2016 election. President Barrow returned to The Gambia in late January 2017, and legislative elections were successfully organized there in early April. In July the ECOWAS force in The Gambia was recast as a peace support mission (the ECOWAS Mission in The Gambia—ECOMIG). In September a senior ECOWAS representative participated in the formal launch of a new Security Sector Reform (SSR) process in that country.</p>
                    <p usage="edio ass">An ECOWAS-supported National Early Warning and Response Mechanism Coordinating Centre was inaugurated in Banjul, The Gambia, in December 2022. The ECOWAS Commission condemned an attempted coup perpetrated in The Gambia in that month.</p>
                    <p usage="edio ass">In December 2021, following the successful staging of presidential elections early in the month, the ECOWAS Authority determined to transform the ECOWAS peace support mission—ECOMIG—into a police mission, with effect from January 2022. An ECOWAS mission observed legislative elections were staged in the Gambia in April of that year. In December the Authority extended ECOMIG’s mandate until the end of 2023 and requested the Commission to initiate training of The Gambia’s police and security forces. In December 2023 the mission’s mandate was extended for a further 12-month period. At that time the authorities in The Gambia were urged to expedite the adoption of a new Constitution, in advance of presidential elections scheduled to be held in 2026.</p>
               </p-group>
               <!--Removed from ASS the section on Guinea s suspension 2009 -11-->
               <p-group id="IO-ECOWAS.GUINEA.77">
                    <heading>Guinea</heading>
                    <p>On 8 September 2021 the ECOWAS Authority convened an emergency, virtual meeting to consider recent events in Guinea, where the military had arrested President Alpha Condé and dissolved the Government. ECOWAS leaders determined to suspend Guinea’s membership, pending an agreement to restore constitutional rule, and to send a high-level mission to that country. A further emergency meeting of the Authority, held on 16 September, demanded the immediate and unconditional release of President Condé, and emphasized to the members of a newly installed Guinean Comité National de Rassemblement et de Développement (CNRD) that they were both individually and collectively responsible for Condé’s safety. In December 2021 the Authority welcomed a recent decision of the transitional authorities to permit Condé finally to return to his home in the Guinean capital Conakry, but stated great concern that no schedule for a return to constitutional order had yet been published. In February 2022 the Authority formally requested the Transitional Authority to provide ECOWAS with an acceptable timetable for restoring constitutional order. An extraordinary meeting of the Authority held in June emphasized continued concern at the length of the transition period. In July the 61st ordinary session of the ECOWAS Authority set a deadline of 1 August for the establishment of an acceptable transition timetable. At that time the former President of Benin Thomas Yayi Boni was appointed as ECOWAS Mediator for Guinea. In September an extraordinary session of the Authority noted that little progress had been made, and imposed a range of diplomatic, financial and economic sanctions against Guinea. The ongoing efforts of the ECOWAS Mediator were commended. An agreement was signed in October between ECOWAS and the Guinean transitional authorities that established a Joint Monitoring and Evaluation Committee, to support the transition process. In February 2023 the ECOWAS Authority strongly urged the Guinean transitional authorities to enter into constructive dialogue with all national stakeholders. In February 2024 the Authority lifted all of the financial and economic sanctions that had been imposed against Guinea.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="IO-ECOWAS.GUINEA-BISSAU.1">
                    <heading>Guinea-Bissau</heading>
                    <p>In February 2022 the ECOWAS Authority strongly condemned a recent attempt by heavily armed gunmen (allegedly linked to illicit drug trafficking networks) to overthrow President Embaló of Guinea-Bissau, and determined to dispatch a new force to protect peace and democracy in the country: the Stabilisation Support Mission in Guinea-Bissau (SSMGB) was deployed in June. In September 2023 FRSD-funded interventions aimed at fostering peace and security were initiated in Guinea-Bissau. In December 2023 the ECOWAS Assembly extended the mandate of the SSMGB until the end of 2024.</p>
                    <!--~ The restrictions target eight of the 15 rebels who back Vaz, six lawmakers from the opposition Social Renovation Party (PRS) which has propped up the president in parliament, and five people close to him.-->
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Mali</heading>
                    <p>From April 2020 tensions over the validity of recent legislative elections, a dangerous national security situation, and growing economic uncertainty (complicated by the COVID-19 crisis) erupted into large-scale, violent protests in Bamako, Mali. In late July an ECOWAS presidential mission to Mali—led by the ECOWAS Special Envoy and Mediator for Mali, former President of Nigeria Goodluck Jonathan—proposed the formation of a government of national unity, and the reconstitution of the Constitutional Court, which in April had overturned the results of 31 parliamentary seats, enabling the re-election of President Ibrahim Boubacar Keïta. The proposals were, however, rejected by a newly formed major opposition alliance known as the June 5 Movement. In mid-August President Keïta—who was forced to announce his resignation and the dissolution of the elected Malian Government—Prime Minister Boubou Cisse, and other senior government figures were detained by members of the Mali military, and were removed from Bamako to a nearby military base. In immediate response, ECOWAS suspended Mali from participation in its decision-making bodies, determined to pursue a sanctions regime against all those involved in the coup, and halted financial flows between the other member states to Mali. Furthermore, all land and air borders were closed between Mali and the other ECOWAS member states. Keïta left Mali at the end of August to receive medical treatment in the United Arab Emirates. In mid-September the new military leadership determined that an 18-month transitional government would be established pending new national elections. A meeting held on 15 September between the ECOWAS Authority and a delegation from the National Committee for the Salvation of the People (CNSP—established to govern Mali temporarily after the coup), examined a CNSP roadmap on the transition to the resumption of constitutional governance. The Authority decided that the President and Prime Minister of the proposed Malian Transitional Government should be civilians; that the CNSP should be dissolved upon the establishment of the Transitional Government; and that elections should be held within 18 months of the date of the meeting. On 25 September Bah N’Daou, a former Minister of Defence, was inaugurated as the civilian transitional President. A charter to govern the transition over the next 18 months was issued at the beginning of October (this extended an amnesty to the leaders of the coup), and, following the appointment on 5 October of a 25-member transitional cabinet, the Authority withdrew the sanctions regime against Mali, and urged international donors to support the transitional administration. The inaugural meeting of a Transition Support Group on Mali (GST-Mali)—with participation by representatives of ECOWAS, the AU, the UN Multidimensional Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA), and other partners—was convened at the end of November, in Bamako. In early December 2020 members of the Conseil national de Transition (transitional parliament) were installed. A second GST-Mali meeting took place in March 2021. In late May ECOWAS and the other GST-Mali participants stated deep concern at the recent arrest by the Malian military of members of the transitional authorities—including the interim President and Prime Minister—and demanded their immediate release. Shortly afterwards the interim President and premier were forced to resign their posts (while continuing to be detained under house arrest). An extraordinary summit of the Authority, convened at the end of that month, in Accra, strongly condemned the recent coup, called for the immediate nomination of a new Prime Minister, and once again suspended Mali’s participation in ECOWAS’s institutions. A monitoring mechanism was to be established to ensure that the next presidential election should proceed as scheduled (in February 2022). In mid-June 2021 the Authority noted the recent appointment of a new civilian Prime Minister and formation of a new transitional Government in Mali. From December of that year forces of the Wagner Group, a Russian private paramilitary and security contractor, appeared to be providing support to the Malian military regime in combating Islamist terrorist groups.</p>
                    <p>Meeting in an extraordinary session in early January 2022, the ECOWAS Authority deeply deplored the failure of the Malian regime to take necessary steps to ensure the organization of the planned presidential poll prior to its scheduled date, and noted that, instead, the authorities had unacceptably scheduled the election to take place after a delay of some years. Therefore, the Authority added additional economic and financial sanctions against Mali and its transitional authorities. In February the Malian military regime enacted an extension of the transition period that would enable it to maintain power for up to five years. Visiting Mali in late February the ECOWAS Special Envoy and the Malian regime stated continuing commitment to pursuing dialogue. At the beginning of July the ECOWAS Authority withdrew economic and financial sanctions from Mali, in view of a newly announced timetable under which a referendum on a proposed new Constitution and legislative elections would be organized during 2023, and a presidential poll would be held in February 2024. A terrorist assault perpetrated against the Kati military base (near Bamako) in late July 2022 was deplored by the ECOWAS Commission. The third meeting of the GST-Mali, held in early September, welcomed the lifting of the economic and financial sanctions on Mali by ECOWAS. Later in September an extraordinary session of the ECOWAS Authority strongly condemned the ongoing detention in Mali since July, despite regional mediation efforts, of 46 Ivorian soldiers, and called for their immediate release. (The Côte d'Ivoire authorities asserted that the soldiers had been sent to provide logistical support to MINUSMA.) However, in December the soldiers were found guilty by a Malian court of conspiring to overthrow the Malian regime. The ECOWAS Authority decided to send a high-level mission to Mali (comprising the leaders of Ghana, Senegal and Togo) to discuss the situation. In December the Authority noted and commended continuing efforts to resolve the situation. In May 2023 ECOWAS welcomed an announcement by the Malian authorities that the planned constitutional referendum would proceed on 18 June; at the poll, 97% of votes cast (on a turnout of 39.4%) favoured the proposed changes.</p>
                    <p>In July 2023 the ECOWAS Authority constituted a Presidential Task Force, comprising the leaders of Benin, Guinea-Bissau and Nigeria, to assess the implications of a recent UN Security Council decision to withdraw MINUSMA from Mali by 31 December. The Task Force was also to support ECOWAS mediators in their efforts to engage in sustained dialogue with the Malian transition authorities. Furthermore, the Authority directed the President of the ECOWAS Commission to propose a comprehensive response mechanism to the withdrawal of MINUSMA and to the presence in the ECOWAS region of foreign private armies (including the Russian Wagner Group).</p>
                    <p>In late January 2024 the military juntas of Mali, Burkina Faso and Niger jointly announced the withdrawal from ECOWAS of all three countries `with immediate effect’. In the following month the Authority lifted restrictions that had been imposed on the recruitment of Malian citizens to professional positions in ECOWAS.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Niger</heading>
                    <!--~ previous Niger coup attempt on 31.iii.21-->
                    <p>In late July 2023 the ECOWAS Commission condemned a coup d’état conducted in Niger by members of the Presidential Guard, under the leadership of Gen. Abdourahmane `Omar' Tchiani, who claimed to have usurped power, having detained the democratically elected President Mohamed Bazoum and dissolved the national Constitution. The ECOWAS Commission called on the perpetrators immediately and unconditionally to release President Bazoum. Meeting in an extraordinary session at the end of July, the Authority condemned the coup in the strongest terms, affirmed that President Bazoum remained the internationally recognized elected Nigerien Head of State, rejected the validity of his forced `resignation’, and called for his immediate release from detention (designated by the Authority as a `hostage situation’) and reinstatement. Should Bazoum not be reinstated within a deadline of one week, the ECOWAS member states vowed to take `all means necessary’ to restore constitutional order in Niger, possibly through the deployment of an ECOWAS force. Support for the coup that had been stated by certain foreign elements (notably by the leader of the Russian Wagner Group) was condemned. Meanwhile all land and air borders between other ECOWAS member states and Niger were to be sealed, a formal ECOWAS no-fly zone imposed on commercial air traffic to or from that country, supplies of electricity halted, and commercial financial and service transactions frozen. On 4 August it was reported that the Nigerien coup leaders had rejected the Authority’s demands. Two days later, upon the formal expiry of the Authority’s ultimatum, the new Nigerien leadership (`National Council for the Safeguard of the Homeland’, with Tchiani having assumed the national presidency) fully closed Niger’s air space, and warned that any external intervention would be repelled. A further extraordinary meeting of the Authority, convened on 10 August, called on the ECOWAS chiefs of defence immediately to activate all elements of the ESF, and ordered the immediate deployment of the Force to restore constitutional order in Niger. The Authority reiterated its continued commitment to achieving a return to constitutional order by peaceful means. At that time the Commissioner for Political Affairs, Peace and Security stated that the organization’s member states—with the exception of Burkina Faso, Guinea and Mali (all under military rule) and Cabo Verde—were ready to intervene in Niger. Later in August the President of the ECOWAS Commission emphasized that diplomatic efforts to secure a solution to the crisis would be fully explored, while explaining that the military option had been activated by the Authority as a means of stemming the recent `contagion’ of coups across the region. ECOWAS condemned and expressed `stupefaction’ at plans announced in mid-August by the Nigerien military regime to bring charges of high treason against Bazoum. Militant attacks at that time that resulted in the deaths of at least 17 Nigerien soldiers were also deplored. </p>
                    <p>
          In September 2023 the Nigerien military junta, with those of Burkina Faso and Mali, established the 
          <xr id="OTHER-9.IO.ALLIANCESAHEL.1" pageref="N">Alliance of Sahel States</xr>
          , envisaged as a mutual defence pact against ECOWAS military intervention. In December the 64th session of the Authority established a commission, comprising the leaders of Benin, Sierra Leone and Togo, that was tasked with negotiating with the de facto Nigerien regime on means of ensuring a short transition to renewed democratic rule and on establishing conditions that would enable the withdrawal of the economic and diplomatic sanctions that were still in place. Member states agreed to lift the punitive measures should the Nigerien junta release Bazoum from detention. Soon afterwards the ECOWAS Court of Justice rejected a petition by Niger for the removal of the sanctions. In late January 2024 the Niger, Burkina Faso and Mali jointly announced their withdrawal from ECOWAS `with immediate effect’. The extraordinary session of the Authority that was held in late February resolved to remove many of the economic measures imposed against Niger, reportedly for humanitarian reasons. The Authority stated regret at that time that, notwithstanding efforts by ECOWAS to resolve the crisis, no plan for a transition to civilian rule had been devised by Niger’s Conseil national pour la sauvegarde de la patrie (CNSP), and former President Bazoum remained under arrest.
        </p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Senegal</heading>
                    <p>In the first half of February 2024 the ECOWAS Commission urged stakeholders in Senegal to return to a previously arranged schedule under which presidential elections were set to be held at the end of the month (in response to a recent decision by President Macky Sall of Senegal to postpone the poll—in which he was ineligible to participate). The extraordinary session of the Authority that was held later in that month commended the achievements of Sall’s presidency, and urged dialogue aimed at preserving Senegal’s democratic gains. At the poll, eventually held in late March, Bassirou Diomaye Faye was elected to the presidency, winning 54% of the votes. An ECOWAS team of observers stated satisfaction with the process.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="IO-ECOWAS.PIRACY.1">
                    <heading>Piracy in the Gulf of Guinea</heading>
                    <p>
          In June 2013 regional heads of state attending a summit held in Yaoundé, Cameroon, formally adopted and opened for signature a Code of Conduct concerning the Prevention and Repression of Piracy, Armed Robbery against Ships, and Illegal Maritime Activities in West and Central Africa, that had been drafted by ECOWAS and 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XB.IO.TXT.67">CEEAC</xr>
           and the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.18">Gulf of Guinea Commission</xr>
          . In June 2014 the three organizations signed an agreement on the establishment of a Yaoundé-based Inter-regional Coordination Centre for Maritime Safety and Security in Central and West Africa. An ECOWAS Integrated Maritime Strategy (EIMS) was adopted by the Authority in March 2014; a draft action plan for the EIMS was under development in early 2024. In May 2015 ECOWAS inaugurated a new Multinational Maritime Coordination Centre, in Cotonou, Benin; the Centre was to address maritime issues, including security threats, arising in the territorial waters of Benin, Niger, Nigeria and Togo. Meeting in July 2019, in Accra, the Chiefs of Naval staff of Ghana, Côte d'Ivoire, Guinea and Sierra Leone, as well as Liberia’s Chief of Coast Guard and the Burkinabè High Commander of the National Gendarmerie, concluded an MOU guiding collaboration on joint maritime operations in the ECOWAS maritime zone.
        </p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="ECOWAS.IO.111" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Finance</heading>
          <p-alternates default="ASS" type="ALTERNATES">
               <p usage="edio ass">Under the revised treaty, signed in July 1993, ECOWAS was to receive revenue from a community tax, based on the total value of imports from member countries. In March 2013 ECOWAS ministers responsible for finance agreed that a 1.5% community integration levy should be agreed as a replacement for the existing ECOWAS community levy and UEMOA community solidarity levy. In practice Nigeria provides around two-thirds of the annual budget. In April 2020, at the time of the onset of the COVID-19 crisis, the ECOWAS Authority reiterated a commitment (previously made at the height of the 2014 West African Ebola outbreak) to allocate a minimum of 15% of their annual budgets towards strengthening public health care systems. The proposed 2024 consolidated budget amounted to 397m. West African Units of Account. An ECOWAS Regional Stabilization Fund was established in 2019.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb">The proposed consolidated budget for 2024 amounted to 397m. West African Units of Account. An ECOWAS Regional Stabilization Fund was established in 2019.</p>
          </p-alternates>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="ECOWAS.IO.112" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Publications</heading>
          <publ-list>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Annual Report</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Convergence Report</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">annually</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
          </publ-list>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="ECOWAS.IO.110" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Specialized Agencies</heading>
          <org-list>
               <org-entry id="ECOWAS.IO.85.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>ECOWAS Bank for Investment and Development (EBID)</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>BP 2704, 128 blvd du 13 janvier, Lomé, Togo</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">22-21-68-64</telephone>
                         <email>bidc@bidc-ebid.org</email>
                         <internet>www.bidc-ebid.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>2001, replacing the former ECOWAS Fund for Co-operation, Compensation and Development</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">has two windows covering private sector promotion, and public sector devt</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">focuses on the following sectors: agriculture and rural devt; water supply and sanitation; environment; social affairs; art and culture; urban planning and habitat; industry and mining; transport; energy; finance; hotels and tourism; and information and communication technologies</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">loans are normally denominated in units of account (UA), equivalent to the IMF’s Special Drawing Right (exceptionally, when mobilized locally, loans may be denominated in local currencies)</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">auth. cap. UA&#8201;1,000m., of which UA&#8201;357.7m. was paid-up (31 Dec. 2022)</content-note>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Pres.</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <title>Dr</title>
                                   <forename>George Agyekum Nana</forename>
                                   <surname>Donkor</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Ghana</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="ECOWAS.IO.GIABA.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Intergovernmental Action Group Against Money Laundering in Africa</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>GIABA</abbr>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>Immeuble A, Complexe SICAP, ave Cheikh Anta Diop, Dakar, Senegal</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">33-859-1818</telephone>
                         <email>secretariat@giaba.org</email>
                         <internet>giaba.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>2000</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to promote regional collaboration and the implementation of measures to counter money laundering, and the financing of terrorism and proliferation</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">
          became an assoc. mem. of the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XC.IO.TXT.21">Financial Action Task Force</xr>
           in 2010
        </content-note>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Edwin W.</forename>
                                   <surname>Harris</surname>
                                   <gen-name>Jr</gen-name>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Liberia</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="ECOWAS.IO.87" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <!--GS 31.08.2017 Ditto-->
                    <!--GS 27.01.2017 Publication was not confirmed-->
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>West African Health Organization (WAHO)</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>01 BP 153 Bobo-Dioulasso 01, Burkina Faso</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(226) 20-97-01-00</telephone>
                         <fax>(226) 20-97-57-72</fax>
                         <email>wahooas@wahooas.org</email>
                         <internet>www.wahooas.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>2000 by merger of the West African Health Community (f. 1978) and the Organization for Co-ordination and Co-operation in the Struggle against Endemic Diseases (f. 1960)</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to harmonize mem. states' health policies and to promote research, training, the sharing of resources and diffusion of information</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">guided since Feb. 2022 by a WAHO Vision 2030</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">principal thematic areas of focus in 2023: Maternal, child and adolescent health; Quality standards and centres of excellence; Pharmaceuticals (i.e. medicines and vaccines); Prevention and control of communicable and non-communicable diseases; Information on health</content-note>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <title>Dr</title>
                                   <forename>Melchior Athanase Joël C.</forename>
                                   <surname>Aïssi</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Benin</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">
           publ. 
          <publ-name>Annual Report</publ-name>
                    </content-note>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="ECOWAS.IO.85" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <!--GS 31.08.2017 Have a contact form instead of an email address-->
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>West African Monetary Agency (WAMA)</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>11-13 ECOWAS St, PMB 218, Freetown, Sierra Leone</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(22) 232482</telephone>
                         <fax>(22) 223943</fax>
                         <internet>amao-wama.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1975 as West African Clearing House; agreement founding WAMA signed by governors of ECOWAS central banks in March 1996</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">administers transactions between its mem. central banks in order to promote subregional trade and monetary co-operation</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">administers the ECOWAS travellers' cheques scheme</content-note>
                    <stats>mems: Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (serving Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte d'Ivoire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo) and the central banks of Cabo Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria and Sierra Leone</stats>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Momodu</forename>
                                   <surname>Bamba Saho</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>The Gambia</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">
           publ. 
          <publ-name>Annual Report</publ-name>
                    </content-note>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="ECOWAS.IO.86.5" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>West African Monetary Institute (WAMI)</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>Gulf House, Gulf St, Accra, Ghana</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(30) 2743801</telephone>
                         <email>info@wami-imao.org</email>
                         <internet>www.wami-imao.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>Dec. 2000, by the ECOWAS Authority</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">working to prepare for the establishment of an ECOWAS central bank (in Dec. 2019 the Authority resolved that the bank should be named the Central Bank of West Africa)</content-note>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <title>Dr</title>
                                   <forename>Olorunsola E.</forename>
                                   <surname>Olowofeso</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Nigeria</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
               <!--Bank establishment originally scheduled for- 2018-->
               <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>West African Power Pool (ECOWAPP)</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>06 BP 2907, Zone des Ambassades, PK 6 Cotonou, Benin</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">21-37-41-95</telephone>
                         <fax>21-37-41-96</fax>
                         <email>info@ecowapp.org</email>
                         <internet>www.ecowapp.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1999; approved as a Specialized Agency in Jan. 2006</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to facilitate the integration of the power systems of mem. nations into a unified regional electricity market</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">17th WAPP General Assembly: held in Nov. 2022, in Dakar, Senegal, on the theme `Development and Integration of Renewable Energy in the ECOWAS Regional Electricity Market’</content-note>
                    <stats>29 mem. utilities</stats>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Apollinaire</forename>
                                   <surname>Siengui Ki </surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Burkina Faso</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
          </org-list>
          <!--~ Committee of West Africa Police Chiefs-->
          <!--9.iv.24: 11,035 words-->
     </int-org-section>
</int-org-entry>