<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="ESA.IO" id-root="esa.io" iso="esa.io" original-filename="wb02045.txt" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>European Space Agency</org-entry-name>
               <abbr>ESA</abbr>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">MAJOR NON-UN ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee ">Regional Organizations</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb edio casee">European Space Agency</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>8-10 rue Mario Nikis, 75738 Paris Cedex 15, France</verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <telephone alsofax="N">1-53-69-76-54</telephone>
               <fax>1-53-69-75-60</fax>
               <email>contactesa@esa.int</email>
               <internet>www.esa.int</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p id="ESA.IO.39">ESA was established in 1975 to provide for, and to promote, European co-operation in space research and technology, and their applications, for exclusively peaceful purposes. It replaced the European Space Research Organisation and the European Launcher Development Organisation (both founded in 1962).</p>
          <int-org-section id="ESA.IO.93" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Members</heading>
               <table-block-simple id="ESA.IO.94" type="OTHER">
                    <table pgwide="NO" style="WITHOUT-RULES">
                         <tgroup cols="2">
                              <colspec colwidth="10cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="10cm" />
                              <tbody>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Austria</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Italy</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Belgium</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Luxembourg</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Czech Republic</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Netherlands</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Denmark</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Norway</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Estonia</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Poland</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Finland</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Portugal</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">France</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Romania</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Germany</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Spain</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Greece</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Sweden</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Hungary</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Switzerland</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Ireland</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">United Kingdom</entry>
                                   </row>
                              </tbody>
                         </tgroup>
                    </table>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">
          Note: A special Co-operation Agreement was concluded with Canada in 1974. Malta and Israel have also concluded Co-operation Agreements with ESA. Bulgaria, Croatia and Cyprus have `European Co-operating State’ status, providing for enhanced engagement with the Agency and partial participation in its activities. Latvia, Lithuania, Slovakia and Slovenia have Associate Member status, enabling fuller particip
          
          ation.
        </content-note>
               </table-block-simple>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="ESA.IO.95" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <heading-note>April 2024</heading-note>
          <int-org-section id="ESA.IO.96" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Council</heading>
               <p id="ESA.IO.57">The Council is composed of representatives of the national bodies responsible for space of all member states. Canada also participates in the Council. The Council, responsible for formulating policy, convenes every three years at ministerial level (`CM22’ took place in November 2022, at ESA’s headquarters in Paris, France). The Council meets more regularly with other delegates. CM25 was to be hosted by Germany.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="ESA.IO.97" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Administration</heading>
               <p>ESA’s activities are divided into the following Directorates, each headed by a Director who reports directly to the Director-General: Earth Observation Programmes; Technical, Engineering and Quality; Human and Robotic Exploration; Industry, Procurement and Legal Services; Navigation; Commercialisation, Industry and Competitiveness; Space Operations; Science; Space Transportation; Telecommunications and Integrated Applications; European, Legal and International Matters; and Internal Services.</p>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="ESA.IO.56" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Director-General</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Dr</title>
                                        <forename>Josef</forename>
                                        <surname>Aschbacher</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Austria</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-ESA.CENTRES.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb">
               <heading>ESA Centres and Offices</heading>
               <p>ESA has several subsidiary centres, covering astronauts (based in Köln, Germany), space applications and telecommunications (Harwell, United Kingdom); space astronomy (Villanueva de la Canada, Spain); space research and operations (Darmstadt, Germany); space technology (Noordwijk, Netherlands); and Earth observation (Frascati, Italy). ESA’s European Space Security and Education Centre, at Redu in Belgium, tests satellites, and incorporates the ESA Space Weather Data Centre, an education training centre, and part of ESA’s ground/tracking stations network. The Agency also has liaison offices in Brussels, Belgium; Moscow, Russian Federation (suspended); and Washington, DC, USA, as well as offices in Houston, Texas, USA, to support International Space Station (ISS) activities, and at the Guiana Space Centre (also known as `Europe’s Spaceport’), located in Kourou, French Guiana. ESA owns the launch and launcher production facilities at Kourou. ESA’s Paris headquarters hosts the European Centre for Space Law.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="ESA.IO.98" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="edio casee">
               <heading>ESA Centres</heading>
               <org-list>
                    <org-entry id="ESA.IO.61" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>ESA Centre for Earth Observation (ESA-ESRIN)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">Frascati, Italy. Responsible for the corporate exploitation of Earth observation data from space</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">an InCubed-2 initiative, approved by the Council in Nov. 2022, supports commercialization in the Earth observation industry</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">includes ESA’s Near-Earth Object Coordination Centre (NEOCC)</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="ESA.IO.62" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>European Astronaut Centre (EAC)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">Köln, Germany. As a subsidiary of the Directorate of Human Spaceflight, manages all Euro­pean astronaut activities and trains European and international partner astronauts on the European elements of the ISS. A single European Astronaut Corps, comprising 16 astronauts, was established in 2002; the Centre employs seven active astronauts</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>European Centre for Space Applications and Telecommunications (ESCAT)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">Harwell, UK. Manages activities related to integrated applications, telecommunications, climate change, technology and science</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="ESA.IO.62.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>European Space Astronomy Centre (ESAC)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">Villanueva de la Canada, Spain. A centre of excellence for space science and a base for ESA astrophysics and solar system missions. Hosts a virtual ­observatory</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="ESA.IO.60" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>European Space Operations Centre (ESOC)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">Darmstadt, Germany. Responsible for all satellite operations and the corresponding ground facilities and communications networks</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="ESA.IO.59" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>European Space Research and Technology Centre (ESTEC)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">Noordwijk, Netherlands. ESA's principal technical es­tablishment, at which the majority of project teams are based, together with the space science department and the technological research and support engineers</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
               </org-list>
               <p id="ESA.IO.63" usage="edio casee">ESA has liaison offices in Brussels, Belgium; Moscow, Russian Federation (co-operation was, however, suspended from early 2022); and Washington, DC, USA, as well as offices in Houston, Texas, USA, to support ISS activities, and at the Guiana Space Centre (also known as `Europe’s Spaceport’), located in Kourou, French Guiana. ESA owns the launch and launcher production facilities at Kourou. ESA’s European Space Security and Education Centre, at Redu in Belgium, tests satellites, and incorporates the ESA Space Weather Data Centre, an education training centre and part of ESA’s ground/tracking stations network. ESA’s Paris headquarters hosts the European Centre for Space Law.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="ESA.IO.99" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Activities</heading>
          <p>ESA's core tasks are to define and put into effect a long-term European space policy of scientific research and technological development, and to encourage all members to co-ordinate their national pro­grammes with those of the Agency to ensure that Europe maintains a competitive position in the field of space technology. ESA's activities cover studies on future projects; technological research; and shared technical investments, information systems and training programmes. These, and the science programme, are mandatory activities to which all members must contribute; other pro­grammes are optional and members may determine their own level of partici­pation. In May 2004 a framework agreement entered into force providing the legal basis for structured co-operation between ESA and the European Commission, and for joint consultations between the ESA Council and the European Union (EU) Council (known as the EU/ESA Space Council). </p>
          <!--~ <EU uses ESA as technical adviser & industrial procurement agent>-->
          <p>A new Framework Partnership Agreement signed by ESA and the European Commission in June 2021 set out a framework that defined ESA-EU relations and the management of project costs over the period 2021-27.</p>
          <p>The 2019 meeting of the ESA Ministerial Council (`Space19+’) was held in November, in Seville, Spain, and reorganized ESA’s activities around the following pillars: safety and security; science and exploration; applications; and enabling and support. A comprehensive set of programmes to guide Europe’s access to and use of space throughout the 2020s was endorsed by the Council. Under the ESA Agenda 2025, launched in March 2021, the following were identified as immediate organizational priorities: enhancing ESA-EU relations; boosting commercialization for a green and digital Europe; strengthening space for safety and security; addressing critical programme challenges (including by promoting rapid technological advances); and streamlining ESA. Within the framework of Agenda 2025 an intermediate ministerial meeting, held in November 2021, in Portugal, endorsed the following as `accelerators’ for the increased use of space: Space for a green future (using observation to help mitigate climate change); Rapid and resilient crisis response; and the Protection of space assets. Also identified within the so-called Matosinhos Manifesto were two longer-term `inspirators’: future European human space exploration and working towards an icy moon sample return mission. The Ministerial Council meeting held in November 2022 adopted a `Zero Debris’ approach to future space missions. A Zero Debris Charter was opened for signature at an informal gathering of European ministers responsible for space that was held in November 2023, in Seville (the `Space Summit 2023’). It was agreed at that time that ESA should work in partnership on green issues with the EU’s Director-General for Climate Action. In view of the increasing commercialization of space activities, ESA was focused in 2024 on modernizing its programmatic approach, including by expanding its role as an anchor customer to commercial suppliers.</p>
          <p>An ESA Green Transition Information Factory (GTIF) uses Earth Observation, cloud-computing and analytics to support policy makers and industry in the pursuit of carbon neutrality.</p>
          <int-org-section id="ESA.IO.100" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Science and Exploration</heading>
               <p>ESA’s ongoing science programme cycle, Cosmic Vision 2015-25, seeks to advance knowledge relating to the fundamental laws of the universe; the conditions for planet formation and the emergence of life; the functioning of the solar system; and the origins and substance of the universe. A Terrae Novae initiative focuses on the Earth (low Earth orbit), the Moon and Mars. Cosmic Vision includes three missions to explore exoplanets of nearby bright stars: Cheops (ESA’s first ever such mission, launched in December 2019), Plato (next generation planet finder, scheduled to be launched in 2026), and Ariel (2029). A Comet Interceptor mission was to be launched with Ariel. Solar Orbiter—aiming to take a closer look at the Sun’s polar regions, and to advance knowledge of processes linked to space weather—was launched in February 2020, and released its initial research images in July. LISA Pathfinder, a joint mission with the US National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), was launched in December 2015 to investigate gravitational waves. BepiColombo, a mission to Mercury, was elaborated with the Japanese Aerospace Exploration Agency and launched in October 2018. Jupiter Icy Moons Explorer (Juice), involving detailed observation of Jupiter and its largest ocean-bearing moons (Callisto, Europa and Ganymede) was launched in April 2023. Euclid, launched on 1 July, aims to map the geometry and action of the dark universe over a period of six years. Other missions, under development, include SPICA (an infrared space telescope for cosmology and astrophysics, with a 2027 launch date); and Athena (Advanced Telescope for High-ENergy Astrophysics, to be launched in 2028, with the aim of examining some of the universe’s most powerful energy sources). In December 2020 Gaia, an ongoing 3D galaxy mapper (launched in December 2013) published its third release of data (the first and second releases having taken place in September 2016 and April 2018).</p>
               <p>ESA collaborated with the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos) to establish the ExoMars mission, to verify whether organic life has ever existed on Mars. An initial Trace Gas Orbiter was launched in March 2016, seeking to detect the presence on Mars of gases such as methane, that might indicate ongoing active biological processes. A surface platform and rover (`Rosalind Franklin’) had been scheduled to be launched in September 2022 and to land on Mars in June 2023; however, in March 2022 the ESA Council suspended ExoMars, in view of the sanctions imposed on Russia and reassessment of co-operation with that country that followed its invasion of Ukraine. In November the Council determined to construct a European lander for the Rosalind Franklin initiative.</p>
               <p>The James Webb Space Telescope, developed jointly by ESA, NASA and the Canadian Space Agency to be the successor of the Hubble Space Telescope, was launched, successfully, on 25 December 2021. Its first images were released in July 2022.</p>
               <p>ESA develops astronauts’ skills in Earth environments through its CAVES (`Cooperative Adventure for Valuing and Exercising human behaviour and performance Skills’) programme; Antarctic Concordia Station research activities; and Pangaea geology training initiative. (The latter includes Pangaea-X tests, involving geological investigations in extreme environments.)</p>
               <p usage="edio">In 2024 a future space science programme, Voyage 2050, to be implemented during 2035-50, was under development.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="ESA.IO.SPACESAFETY.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Safety and Security</heading>
               <p>ESA’s space safety activities cover early warning and mitigation of potentially damaging solar flares and asteroids, the identification and removal of space debris, and the development of mechanisms aimed at automating space traffic control. The Agency is developing an automated Flyeye telescope to scan night skies for possible near-Earth objects (NEOs). The inaugural ESA NEO and Debris Detection Conference was convened in January 2019, in Darmstadt, Germany. ClearSpace-1, the first space mission aimed at removing dangerous orbiting debris, was commissioned by ESA’s Council in November 2019 and was scheduled to be launched in 2025. Under ESA’s Iris Programme a new satellite-based air-ground communication system for Air Traffic Management was to be developed, to support safer and greener aviation.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="ESA.IO.101" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Applications</heading>
               <p>
        ESA has contributed, through its satellite projects, to the understanding and monitoring of the Earth's environment. ESA and the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XK.IO.TXT.33">(EUMETSAT)</xr>
         concluded a co-operation agreement in October 2015 that provided for the further development of MetOp Second Generation satellites, which were to be operational from the mid-2020s. During 2022-26 ESA and EUMETSAT were jointly establishing a Meteosat Third Generation (MTG) operational geo­stationary meteorological satellite system. ESA and EUMETSAT also collaborate on the MetOp/EPS (EUMETSAT Polar System) programme, to provide observations from polar orbit. In March 2021 ESA and a representative of a Swedish consortium signed a contract providing for the development of a new Arctic Weather Satellite mission—to be developed with EUMETSAT, with the aim of providing `nowcasting’ (i.e. very short-range weather forecasting) in the Arctic region.
      </p>
               <p>ESA is responsible for the space component of the European Commission’s Copernicus initiative (previously known as the Global Monitoring for Environment and Security programme). In April 2014 it launched the first of a series of Sentinel Earth observation satellites. Sentinel-6, with a particular mission to produce data on sea level rises, was launched in November 2020.</p>
               <p>The Space Situational Awareness (SSA) programme, which became fully operational in 2012, aims to develop a capability to monitor natural phenomena as well as potentially hazardous objects. In April 2013 an ESA Space Weather Coordination Centre (SSCC) was inaugur­ated in Brussels (Belgium), within the framework of the SSA; an SSCC help desk provides expert support for satellite operators, the telecommunications and navigation sectors, and government agencies and research institutes on solar weather, ionospheric weather, and on the state of the geomagnetic and the orbital radiation environments.</p>
               <p>ESA’s FutureEO research and development programme focuses on developing innovative satellite missions and ways of using Earth observation. ESA Earth Explorer missions, the research element of its Living Planet Programme, aim to enhance understanding of the Earth’s system while addressing key challenges identified by the scientific community. Ongoing missions include CryoSat-2, launched in 2010 to monitor changes in the thickness of polar sea ice and of the Antarctica and Greenland ice sheets; the Soil Moisture and Ocean Salinity (SMOS) mission, launched in November 2009 to further understanding of the Earth's water cycle; the Atmospheric Dynamics Mission—Aeolus—launched in August 2018, to demonstrate measurements of vertical wind profiles from space; Swarm, launched in November 2013 to investigate the Earth’s magnetic field; and Biomass, which aims to assess annual changes in the above-ground biomass of tropical forests. An Earth Cloud, Aerosol, and Radiation Explorer (EarthCARE) mission was to be launched in May 2024, with the aim of improving the representation and understanding of the Earth's radiative balance in climate and numerical forecast models, and a Fluorescence Explorer (FLEX) programme is planned, to monitor photosynthetic activity. In February 2021 ESA approved the development of a Harmony satellite initiative, designed to measure small alterations in the shape of the Earth’s land and sea surfaces that might indicate volcanic, earthquake, or glacier melting activity and concomitant sea level rise risks. In November 2022 the Council approved the development of an Aeolus-2 mission (with a focus on measuring global wind speeds), and MAGIC, which was to observe the volume of water in oceans, glaciers and ice sheets.</p>
               <p id="ESA.IO.77">ESA and the European Commission have collaborated to design and develop a European global satellite and navigation system, Galileo, which aims to provide a highly accurate global positioning service by means of 30 satellites, a global network of 20 Galileo Sensor Stations, and two Galileo Control Centres, based in Europe. The first operational Galileo satellites were launched from 2011. Since 2016 Galileo Initial Services has implemented a comprehensively encrypted Public Regulated Service, accessible to state security services; a Search and Rescue Service; and a free, mass-market positioning and navigation Open Service. In 2024 26 Galileo satellites were in orbit. Under the terms agreed by the UK that governed its departure from the EU in January 2020, UK companies were no longer permitted to participate in most components of the project (which had previously received considerable UK investment, but was regarded by the European Commission as a key and sensitive dimension of the EU security structure).</p>
               <p>
        ESA, in co-operation with the European Commission and 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XM.IO.TXT.11">EUROCONTROL</xr>
        , implements the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS) system, which contributes to Galileo, and to the wider Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS): the (US) Global Positioning System, the (Russian) GLONASS service, and the (People’s Republic of China) BeiDou Navigation Satellite System. In July 2017 operational authority of the Galileo project was transferred from ESA to the European GNSS Agency. The European Commission aims to extend the scope of EGNOS to serve European Neighbourhood countries.
      </p>
               <p>ESA’s main ongoing contribution to the ISS is the Columbus Laboratory (launched in February 2008), which accommodates European multi-user research facilities—directed from the Columbus Control Centre, in Oberpfaffenhofen, Germany. Within the framework of the ISS agreements with the USA, ESA is allocated 51% usage of Columbus, the remainder being allocated to NASA. In addition to the experiment accommodation capabilities on Columbus, the Euro­pean Zero-G Airbus, operated under ESA contract by France’s Novespace, provides European researchers short duration access to microgravity conditions. Furthermore, droptowers and sounding rockets provide additional short-duration opportunities.</p>
               <p>ESA and its ISS partners aimed to finalize a new space Gateway structure during the 2020s, to be positioned near the Moon (further from the Earth than the ISS), and to comprise a communications module, space module, operations station, accommodation station, and airlock (for space walks). </p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="ESA.IO.102" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Enabling and Support</heading>
               <p>In September 2020 ESA initiated parallel studies with the European Telecommunications Satellite Organization (EUTELSAT) and the Netherlands-based Airbus, on accelerating the availability of the next-generation satellite communication infrastructure. ESA also co-operates closely with the mobile satellite company Inmarsat. ESA’s Advanced Research in Telecommunications Systems (ARTES) programme aims to foster innovative research and development. An ARTES European Data Relay Satellite element supports the European Data Relay System (EDRS), initiated by ESA in January 2016.</p>
               <p>In accordance with an agreement concluded in April 2019 by ESA and the European Commission, ESA was to provide the space satellites component—SAGA (security and cryptographic mission)—of a new encrypted European Quantum Communication Infrastructure (Euro QCI). In February 2021 ESA and the European Defence Agency concluded an agreement providing for expanded co-operation in the development of secure satellite communications.</p>
               <p usage="edio casee">ESA’s Navigation Innovation and Support Programme (NAVISP) aims to use satellite technology to support the industrial competitiveness of member states.</p>
               <p-group id="ESA.IO.444">
                    <heading>Space Transportation</heading>
                    <p>ESA’s Ariane space launcher project became operational in 1979. During 1996-July 2023 (when the programme was closed) the Agency’s Ariane-5 launcher, in five different operational configurations, undertook 117 missions. Ariane-6 was to be inaugurated in mid-2024. A Vega small rocket launcher was introduced in 2012; a new Vega-C launcher became operational in July 2022. In December, following the failure of a Vega-C launch, ESA and Arianespace (the launch service provider) established an independent commission to investigate the incident. ESA’s Future Launcher Preparatory Programme, initiated in 2003, focuses on the development of new launch system concepts. A European Service Module (providing oxygen, nitrogen, water and electricity) was developed by ESA in the framework of NASA's Orion spacecraft programme; the inaugural mission of the European Service Module, `Artemis 1’, was launched in November 2022. ESA’s Space Rider, an unmanned reusable lifting body, is capable of remaining in low-Earth orbit for more than two months (and can be used for space experiments). Argonaut, a lunar lander, to provide autonomous logistical access to the moon, was under development in 2024.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="ESA.IO.106" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Finance</heading>
          <p>All member states contribute to ESA's mandatory programme activities on a scale based on their national income, and are free to decide on their level of commitment in optional programmes. In November 2022 the Council agreed a significant increase to ESA’s annual budget, of 17%, over the period 2023-27. The total budget for 2024 amounted to €7,790m., of which 30.5% was allocated to Earth observation, 13.5% to navigation and 13.3% to space transportation. The EU was to contribute 23.4% of ESA’s budget in 2024.</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="ESA.IO.107" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Publications</heading>
          <publ-list>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>ESA Annual Space Environment Report</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
          </publ-list>
          <article id="ESA.IO.80">Monographs and conference proceedings.</article>
     </int-org-section>
</int-org-entry>