<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="IO-UN.1110" id-root="io-un.1110" iso="io-un.1110" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio mena "  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia</org-entry-name>
               <abbr>ESCWA</abbr>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">International Organizations</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">United Nations</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="mena">Regional Organizations</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb">United Nations (Regional Commissions)</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="edio">Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="mena">The United Nations in the Middle East and North Africa</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>Riad el-Solh Sq., POB 11-8575, Beirut, Lebanon</verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <telephone alsofax="N">(1) 981301</telephone>
               <fax>(1) 981510</fax>
               <email>escwa-ciu@un.org</email>
               <internet>www.unescwa.org</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p id="IO-UN.1111">The UN Economic Commission for Western Asia was established in 1974, to provide facilities of a wider scope for those countries previously served by the UN Economic and Social Office in Beirut. The membership has since expanded, and the present name was adopted in 1985.</p>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1112" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="mena edio ">
               <heading>Members</heading>
               <table-block-simple id="IO-UN.1113" type="OTHER">
                    <table style="WITHOUT-RULES">
                         <tgroup cols="2">
                              <colspec colwidth="9cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="9cm" />
                              <tbody>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Algeria</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Oman</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Bahrain</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Palestine</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Djibouti</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Qatar</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Egypt</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Saudi Arabia</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Iraq</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Somalia</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Jordan</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Sudan</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Kuwait</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Syrian Arab Republic</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Lebanon</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Tunisia</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Libya</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">United Arab Emirates</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Mauritania</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Yemen</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Morocco</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   </row>
                              </tbody>
                         </tgroup>
                    </table>
               </table-block-simple>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1114" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <heading-note>April 2024</heading-note>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1115" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Commission</heading>
               <p>The Commission normally meets every two years in ministerial session to determine policy and establish work directives. Special sessions may also be held. The 31st ordinary ministerial session of the Commission was convened in December 2023, in Cairo, Egypt.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.ESCWA.5" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Executive Committee</heading>
               <p>The Executive Committee, composed of senior officials from member countries, convenes intermittently between ministerial sessions of the Commission, with a mandate to advise and assist the secretariat in formulating strategy and future priorities, and to support the implementation of the secretariat’s programme of work.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.ESCWA.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Subsidiary Committees</heading>
               <p>Specialized intergovernmental committees—on Statistics, Social Development, Energy, Water Resources, Transport and Logistics, Trade Policies, Technology for Development, Financing for Development, and Women—assist the Commission to formulate medium-term work programmes.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1132" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Secretariat</heading>
               <p id="IO-UN.1133">The secretariat is headed by an Executive Secretary, supported by two Deputy Executive Secretaries, for Programme and for Programme Support. There are also offices for the six thematic clusters, a Resources Management and Services Development division, an External Relations and Communications section and a Strategy, Planning, Accountability, Results and Knowledge (SPARK) team.</p>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="IO-UN.1134" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Executive Secretary</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Rola</forename>
                                        <surname>Dashti</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Kuwait</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
                    <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF" usage="edio mena">
                         <dir-entry-name>Deputy Executive Secretary, Programme</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Mounir</forename>
                                        <surname>Tabet</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Canada</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
                    <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF" usage="edio">
                         <dir-entry-name>Deputy Executive Secretary, Programme Support</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <vacancy />
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1135" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Activities</heading>
          <p>
      ESCWA aims to support development and to further economic co-operation and integration in western Asia. It undertakes or sponsors studies of economic, social and development issues of the region, collects and disseminates information, and provides relevant advisory services. The Commission also organizes conferences and intergovernmental and expert group meetings and sponsors training workshops and seminars. Its work programme is organized across six integrated thematic clusters: Climate change and natural resource sustainability; Gender justice, population and inclusive development; Shared economic prosperity; Statistics, information society and technology; 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UNDP.001">2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development</xr>
       and UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) co-ordination; and Governance and conflict prevention.
    </p>
          <p>In March 2021 the inaugural annual meeting took place of an Arab States Regional Collaborative Platform (Arab States RCP), with participation by UN development entities active in the region. The Arab States RCP is chaired by the UN Deputy Secretary-General, with ESCWA’s Executive Secretary and the Director of the UN Development Programme (UNDP) Regional Bureau for Arab States acting as Vice-Chairs.</p>
          <p>
      A long-term common socioeconomic and institutional vision for Arab countries—Arab Vision 2045—was launched jointly by ESCWA and the 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="LAS.IO">League of Arab States</xr>
       (Arab League) in December 2023 at the 31st ministerial session of the Commission.
    </p>
          <p usage="edio mena">
      A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) concluded in June 2013 between ESCWA and the 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="LAS.IO">Arab League</xr>
       provided for participation by ESCWA in ministerial sessions and meetings of the League’s Economic and Social Council.
    </p>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.ESCWA.009" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>UN 2030 Agenda and SDG Co-ordination</heading>
               <p>
        ESCWA provides technical advice to member states to support the implementation of Voluntary National Reviews (VNRs) of progress in pursuing the SDGs, and has established an Arab VNR Community of Practice. Since 2016 the Commission and the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="LAS.IO">Arab League</xr>
         have organized an annual Arab Forum for Sustainable Development (AFSD), with participation by government officials, regional organizations, and representatives of civil society and the private sector, to consider the co-ordinated implementation and follow-up in the Arab region of the UN SDGs. AFSD-2024, held in early March, in Beirut, focused on a review of the regional progress of SDGs 1 (on ending poverty), 2 (ending hunger), 13 (combating climate change), 16 (promoting peaceful and inclusive societies), and 17 (on partnerships).
      </p>
               <p>
        The second edition of a five-yearly 
        <publ-name>Arab Sustainable Development Report (ASDR)</publ-name>
        , issued by ESCWA and partner agencies in June 2020, forecast that the Arab region would not achieve the UN SDGs by 2030, and noted that, even prior to the COVID-19 crisis, a rising trend in extreme poverty had been reported there (mainly attributable to conflict). 
      </p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="ESCWA.IO.3" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Climate Change and Natural Resource Sustainability</heading>
               <p>
        ESCWA promotes regional and subregional co-operation aimed at strengthening water, energy and food security. Its Climate Change and Natural Resource Sustainability Cluster co-ordinates the Regional Initiative for the Assessment of Climate Change Impacts on Water Resources and Socio-Economic Vulnerability in the Arab Region (RICCAR), launched in 2009 by ESCWA and the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="LAS.IO">Arab League.</xr>
         Three regional climate research centres have been established within the RICCAR framework. The Cluster also directs the Arab Centre for Climate Change Policies (established in June 2018). In December 2020 ESCWA initiated a regional Climate-SDG Debt Swap Mechanism (DSM). A Climate Resilience through Regional Co-operation initiative was launched in 2022. ESCWA extends technical support to Arab negotiators on climate change, conducts climate change impact and vulnerability assessments, and analyses environmental and related socioeconomic issues to inform policymaking.
      </p>
               <p>
        An ESCWA report titled 
        <publ-name>Groundwater in the Arab Region,</publ-name>
         issued in September 2022, noted that two-thirds of the region’s (scarce) water resources crossed at least one national boundary. Pollution, high population growth, inefficient management of water resources, conflict, and climate change and extreme weather events were reported to be impediments to access to water resources. In that year the Commission launched a programme promoting innovative technologies for managing groundwater resources. During the period 1 May 2023-31 December 2025 ESCWA, the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="LAS.IO">Arab League</xr>
         and 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="UNCLIMATE.IO">UN Climate</xr>
         were jointly implementing an Arab Initiative for Mobilizing (AIM) Climate Finance for Water.
      </p>
               <p>
        In September 2022 ESCWA issued a report titled 
        <publ-name>Arab Food Security Vulnerabilities and Pathways,</publ-name>
         which considered the state of food supply and security in the region and detailed means of enhancing resilience to future external shocks. In December ESCWA helped organize an Arab Forum for Agriculture, in Amman, which addressed, 
        <i>inter alia,</i>
         the role of the private sector in sustainable agriculture development. A Strategy for Sustainable Arab Agricultural Development was being implemented during 2020-30, alongside an Arab Program for Sustaining Food Security that aimed to expand output of basic food commodities by a minimum of 30% by 2030.
      </p>
               <p>
        The second annual Arab Environmental Forum, convened in October 2023, in Muscat, Oman, by ESCWA, the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="LAS.IO">Arab League</xr>
         and the UN Environment Programme, aimed to advance strategic partnerships to address environmental challenges, with a focus on food and water security.
      </p>
               <p>In March 2018 ESCWA and the Arab League adopted a harmonized regional outlook on energy policy, identifying the following priorities: transitioning towards sustainable energy systems; enhancing resource management; and reducing dependency on fossil fuels. In September ESCWA, the Arab League and the Swedish International Development Agency initiated the Regional Initiative for Promoting Small-scale Renewable Energy Applications in Rural Areas of the Arab Region (REGEND), focused on enhancing social inclusion, livelihoods and gender equality through investment in renewable energy technologies.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.ESCWA.004" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Gender Justice, Population and Inclusive Development</heading>
               <p>
        ESCWA aims to advance gender equality through the promotion of gender justice and the law; women, peace and security; women’s economic empowerment; and the elimination of violence against women. The Commission supports member states in translating global normative frameworks into regional programmes, promotes ratification and implementation of relevant international instruments, compiles gender status indicators, develops training packages, raises awareness by publishing reports and studies, and organizes conferences. In January 2016 ESCWA’s Committee on Women adopted the Muscat Declaration: Towards the Achievement of Gender Justice in the Arab Region, which was envisaged as a broad framework within which to pursue gender equality. In November 2019 the Committee on Women issued a series of recommendations to advance the regional implementation of the objectives defined in the 1995 Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action, including: developing national legislation to mainstream gender equality, enhancing data collection on indicators monitoring violence against women, making use of relevant knowledge and training guidance produced by ESCWA, and promoting private sector engagement in advancing women’s role in society. A high-level meeting convened soon afterwards, in Amman, Jordan, issued an Arab Declaration that restated commitment to the Beijing Declaration. The 
        <publ-name>Arab Gender Gap Report 2020: Gender Equality and the Sustainable Development Goals,</publ-name>
         issued in May 2021, analysed more than 200 regional gender equality indicators relating to the status of women, men, girls and boys at national and regional level. The 11th session of the Committee on Women, convened in October 2023, addressed, 
        <i>inter alia,</i>
         social welfare and protection policies that promote women’s economic empowerment; legislative reform; sexual harassment in the workplace; safe and effective transport systems; and the role of property in women’s entrepreneurship.
      </p>
               <p>The Fourth Arab review of the 2002 Madrid International Plan of Action on Ageing was organized in June 2022 by ESCWA and the UN Population Fund. In September 2023 ESCWA participated in the Sixth Regional Review of the 1994 International Conference on Population and Development.</p>
               <p>
        ESCWA assists member states with drafting inclusive rights-based social protection, social justice and development policies that take into consideration the needs of diverse social groups, with a particular focus on marginalized and vulnerable people, with a view to alleviating inequalities and eliminating poverty. In 2020 the Commission launched initiatives on addressing multidimensional poverty and on monitoring money-metric poverty and wealth inequality. A revised 
        <publ-name>Arab Multidimensional Poverty Index,</publ-name>
         compiled jointly by ESCWA, the Arab League and other partners, was issued in April 2021. The Index focused on both income and on deprivations such as lack of access to education, public infrastructure and health services—with the aim of providing poverty eradication recommendations for the region, in the context of the UN’s 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UNDP.001">2030 Agenda</xr>
        . (The first Index was released in 2017.) A High-level Ministerial Forum on the Future of Social Protection in the Arab Region, organized by ESCWA and partners in November 2021, gave consideration to social protection governance, coverage, responsiveness, and resilience to shocks, in the context of securing a strong regional recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. In April 2022 ESCWA and partners issued 
        <publ-name>The COVID-19 Pandemic in the Arab Region: An opportunity to reform social protection systems,</publ-name>
         which emphasized the need to address the requirements of vulnerable populations and to ensure social protection benefits for `invisible’ informal workers in the region. A report published in November by ESCWA, UNDP and partners, titled 
        <publ-name>Social Expenditure Monitor for Arab Countries: Towards Making Budgets More Equitable, Efficient, and Effective to Achieve the Sustainable Development Goals,</publ-name>
         found that, measured as a share of GDP, public spending in the Arab region had remained constant over the past decade, at around 34%, of which no more than 8% reached health, social protection and education programmes. Recommendations included enhancing investment in public services through improving tax collection systems and curbing illegal financial flows; and making use of innovative debt relief mechanisms. The second annual Arab Forum on Equality was hosted by ESCWA in Beirut, in June 2023, with a focus on food security.
      </p>
               <p>In 2020 ESCWA initiated an Arab Digital Inclusion Platform to support digital participation by people with disabilities, and also a programme promoting the inclusion of people with disabilities in the labour market. In January 2022, with participation by ESCWA, the Arab League and other partners, an EU-Arab Cooperation Forum on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was established; this in turn created an Arab-EU Research Network on Disability. ESCWA hosted the Network’s first event, held in February 2023, concerned with independent living within the community.</p>
               <p>
        In November 2023 ESCWA and the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.2248">International Telecommunication Union</xr>
         convened, in the Moroccan capital, Rabat, the third annual Accessible Arab Region: ICT for All conference, focused on advancing digital accessibility.
      </p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.ESCWA.002" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Shared Economic Prosperity</heading>
               <p>
        ESCWA supports member countries in the areas of financing for development; promoting domestic, intraregional and foreign investment; facilitating transboundary flows of goods, services, people and capital, by integrating regional markets; and through the provision of debt management assistance. Continuous assessments are made of the region’s macroeconomic performances, and economic research is undertaken. An initiative entitled `Developing Debt Optimization Strategies to Enhance Fiscal Space in Arab States’ was launched by the Commission in 2022. A 
        <publ-name>Survey of Economic and Social Developments in the Arab Region</publ-name>
         is published regularly. The 2021-22 edition, issued in December 2022, forecast that the overall GDP of the Arab region would expand by 4.5% in 2023 and by 3.4% in 2024. Excluding the Gulf Cooperation Council countries and Libya, more than one-third of the population of the Arab region were reported to be living in poverty in 2022, and the unemployment rate across the region in that year was estimated at 12%.
      </p>
               <p>ESCWA supports member states in creating decent work opportunities and in addressing changes to jobs and skills that arise from technological transformations. In 2022 ESCWA and partners launched a new initiative, `Josour’, which aimed to provide technical and vocational training, internship schemes, and employment and education fairs to enhance the employability of young people in the region.</p>
               <p>An internet-based platform (the `SMEs Enablers Portal’) was initiated in September 2019 to provide assistance to small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). In October 2020 ESCWA and the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) launched a Beirut-based ICC-ESCWA Centre of Entrepreneurship (CoE), which aimed to promote entrepreneurial innovation and improve the business operating environment for SMEs in Arab countries. The inaugural ICC-ESCWA Regional Economic Forum, convened in December 2021, noted that only 8% of the overall digital potential of Arab economies had been harnessed. In April 2022 the ICC-ESCWA CoE supported the launch an eCommerce Acceleration Programme (eCAP), which aimed to build SMEs’ online selling capacities, A second phase of eCAP was initiated in January 2023. At the second annual Arab SMEs Summit, held under ESCWA auspices in December, in Marrakesh, Morocco, funding commitments to SMEs exceeding US&#8201;$177m. were announced.</p>
               <!--~ April 2019 expert group meeting on advancing IP rights in the region-->
               <p>In April 2013 ESCWA launched a regional Infrastructure Investments and Public-Private Partnerships (PPP) Initiative, in co-operation with the Geneva, Switzerland-based UNECE International Centre of Excellence on PPPs, providing for the establishment of a regional PPP network and of PPP specialist centres (including on Islamic finance, renewable energy and infrastructure). In May 2023 ESCWA helped to organize, in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, the fourth annual Competition Forum for the Arab region, which addressed mergers and acquisitions, and means of enhancing the effectiveness of competition authorities in developing member countries. ESCWA’s Blockchain for International Trade initiative provides training in blockchain technology and a related online platform.</p>
               <p>A Financing for Development Gateway initiative, launched in 2021, offers relevant tools for policymakers, while the Arab Financing for Development Scorecard, introduced in 2022, provides a systemic evaluation of finance arrangements.</p>
               <p usage="edio mena">
        In March 2022, as part of a series of COVID-19 impact assessments that was initiated in 2020, ESCWA released 
        <publ-name>Rising wealth inequality in the Arab region amid COVID-19,</publ-name>
         which reported that since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic wealth inequality had markedly deepened in the region: while, in early 2022, 10% of the Arab population were reported to control more than 80% of total regional wealth, the wealth of the poorest half had since 2019 diminished by one-third. Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Saudi Arabia, the UAE and Yemen were reportedly among the 20 most unequal countries globally. The need for inclusive growth strategies and social protection was emphasized.
      </p>
               <p>ESCWA has focused on the development of an integrated transport system in the Arab Mashreq region; on the establishment of a transport information system; on the formation of national and regional transport and trade committees, representing both the private and public sectors; on the simplification of cross-border trading procedures; and on the use of electronic data exchange for more efficient transport and trade. A Convention on International Multi-modal Transport of Goods in the Arab Mashreq was adopted in May 2008 by the 25th ministerial session of the Commission. In June 2016 an MOU on future co-operation in transport and trade facilitation was concluded between ESCWA and the International Road Union. The Commission assists member states with developing sustainable strategies and initiatives to improve road safety.</p>
               <p>ESCWA issues regular reports that addresses the economic and social impacts of Israeli policies on Palestine. In mid-2022 ESCWA restated that development was being prevented, the Palestinian economy fragmented, and humanitarian crises caused by Israeli actions that included repression against individuals and organizations, settlement expansion in the West Bank, and the blockade of Gaza. The unemployment rate in Gaza was reported to be 47%; average GDP per capita there was reportedly 52% lower than in 2005; and 62% of residents there were reported to be food-insecure. Following the devastating escalation of Hamas-Israel hostilities in October 2023, ESCWA issued a series of policy briefs on potential consequences in and beyond Gaza. Socioeconomic impacts of the conflict in Gaza were a focus of the 31st session of the Commission held in December.</p>
               <!--~ Arab Economic Forum-->
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.ESCWA.008" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Statistics, Information Society and Technology</heading>
               <p>ESCWA helps to develop the statistical systems of member states in accordance with the UN Fundamental Principles of Official Statistics, in order to improve the accuracy and comparability of economic and social data, and to make the information more accessible to planners and researchers. Member states are assisted in preparing for population and housing censuses. ESCWA also compiles, processes and disseminates statistics on international trade and transport within the region, and assists member countries to develop relevant statistical capacity. ESCWA’s Arab Region Data Portal, initiated in January 2019, provides social and economics statistics on member states.</p>
               <p>
        ESCWA works to increase the capabilities of its member countries in harnessing information and communications technology (ICT) in support of sustainable development and regional integration. It aims to narrow the digital gap between Arab countries and other regions, and, consequently, to improve the competitiveness of local industries and the effectiveness of local services. An ESCWA Technology Centre was inaugurated, in El Hassan Science City, Jordan, in November 2011. The ENACT project, focused on expediting the use of technology and innovation to enhance the efficiency of public institutions, was introduced in 2023. ESCWA’s iBiT toolkit supports the optimization of public expenditure efficiency. A series of Policy Recommendations on Cybersafety and Combating Cybercrime in the Arab Region was issued in April 2015. An ESCWA Academy of ICT Essentials for Government Leaders in the ESCWA Region initiative was launched in 2020 to assist policymakers. In December 2021 ESCWA, with the Arab League and other partners, organized the inaugural Arab International Digital Cooperation and Development Forum. In January 2023 regional ministers responsible for telecommunications and information technology adopted an Arab Digital Agenda to cover the period 2023-33, which had been jointly prepared by ESCWA and the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="LAS.IO">Arab League.</xr>
         This was focused on five pillars: digital infrastructure, governance, economy, society, and culture, and aimed to mobilize related investment and partnerships. The third cycle of an ESCWA Digital Arabic Content Award for Sustainable Development covered the period 2023-24.
      </p>
               <p usage="edio mena">ESCWA has supported member states’ compilation of National Digital Development Reviews (NDDRs).</p>
               <p usage="mena edio">
        An Arab Internet Governance Forum (AIGF) process—established under the auspices of ESCWA and the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="LAS.IO">Arab League</xr>
        —was initiated in 2012.
      </p>
               <p>
        ESCWA’s 30th session, convened in Beirut, Lebanon, in June 2018 adopted the Beirut Consensus on Technology for Sustainable Development in the Arab Region, with a focus on using technology and innovation to advance prosperity and peace, as well as the objectives of the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UNDP.001">2030 Agenda</xr>
        .
      </p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.ESCWA.003" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Governance and Conflict Prevention</heading>
               <p>ESCWA supports the development of institution-building, open government strategies, and integrated national development planning in member states. It also promotes partnerships aimed at supporting the sustainable development of its least developed members—Djibouti, Mauritania, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen (all formally classified by the UN as least developed countries), as well as Palestine.</p>
               <p>
        A project aimed at mitigating transboundary risks that might derail national development strategies was introduced in 2019. In February 2021 ESCWA, with IOM and the Arab League, convened the first high-level regional conference to review the 2018 Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration. The 2021 edition of a joint ESCWA-International Organization for Migration (IOM) 
        <publ-name>Situation Report on International Migration in the Arab Region</publ-name>
        , issued in July 2022, noted that in 2020 the region hosted 14% of the global migrant population.
      </p>
               <p>The Commission develops activities in conflict and post-conflict countries and areas. Its priorities include analysis and policy formulation for reducing the causes of conflict; capacity building to improve the effectiveness of public administration and the rule of law; forging partnerships among civic entities at local and regional level; and addressing the special needs of countries affected by conflicts.</p>
               <p>ESCWA’s National Agenda for the Future of Syria (NAFS) initiative, launched in 2012 and ongoing, represents a technical dialogue platform preparing for the challenges of the eventual post-conflict transition in that country. Other projects include the provision of regional and local `networking academies’ in Iraq, to give training in information technology; the Smart Communities Project, providing modern technology for villages in Iraq; and a Yemen Vision for Recovery and Development initiative.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1152" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Finance</heading>
          <p id="IO-UN.1153">ESCWA's proposed regular budget allocation from the UN budget for 2024 was US&#8201;$50.1m.</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1154" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Publications</heading>
          <publ-list>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>ESCWA Annual Report</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Arab Economic Integration Report</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Arab Gender Gap Report</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Arab Multidimensional Poverty Report</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Arab Society: a Compendium of Social Statistics</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">every 2 years</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Bulletin of Industrial Statistics for Arab Countries</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>ESCWA Centre for Women Newsletter</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">monthly</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>External Trade Bulletin of the ESCWA Region</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">annually</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>National Accounts Studies of the Arab Region</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Situation Report on International Migration in the Arab Region</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Status of Arab Women Report</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Survey of Economic and Social Developments in the Arab Region</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">annually</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
          </publ-list>
          <p>Other reports, case studies, policy briefs, guides and manuals.</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <!--8.iv.24 - 3,641 words-->
</int-org-entry>