<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="WB02046.IO.TXT.7659809543" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
          <int-org-entry-head>
               <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                    <org-entry-name>Finance</org-entry-name>
               </int-org-name-group>
          </int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-sectref id="SL1112162" int-org-sectrefdtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1112161" slsdocid="1103475" slsdocty="int-org-section int-org-sectrefdtd">
               
               <int-org-section id="WB02049.IO.TXT.19" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="int-org_eu" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <heading>Budget</heading>
                    <p id="WB02049.IO.TXT.100" usage="ewyb edio casee">The EU budget, which funds EU policies and finances all the EU institutions, is limited by agreement of all the member states. The European Commission puts forward spending proposals, which have to be approved by the European Parliament (EP) and the Council. The EP signs the agreed budget into law. Revenue for the budget comes from `own resources’, largely comprising customs duties, sugar levies, payments based on value-added tax (VAT) and contributions from the member states based on their gross national income (GNI). Member states collect own resources on the EU’s behalf. The Commission is accountable each year to the EP for its use of EU funds. External audits are carried out by the European Court of Auditors. To combat fraud, the European Anti-Fraud Office was established in June 1999.</p>
                    <p id="WB02049.IO.TXT.101" usage="ewyb edio casee">The general budget contains the expenditure of the main EU institutions, of which Commission expenditure (covering administrative costs and expendi­ture on operations) forms the largest proportion. Expenditure is divided into two categories: commitment appropriations (commitments), which correspond to the cost of legally binding pledges pertaining to a particular financial year, and payment appropriations (payments), which relate to the actual expenditure made, as a result of legal commitments for the current year, as well as, potentially, previous years. Where expenditure must be made in the same year, for example, in the case of financial support to the agricultural sector, commitments and payments will be identical.</p>
                    <p>
          The budgetary process is aided by the establishment of Financial Perspectives, which are spending plans covering a number of years, thus guaranteeing the security of long-term EU projects and activities. Although the Financial Perspective limits expenditure in each policy area for each of the years covered, a more detailed annual budget still has to be agreed each year. The Commission presents the preliminary draft annual budget in late April or early May of the preceding year and the adopted budget is published in Febru
          
          ary of the relevant year. If the budget has not been adopted by the beginning of the financial year, monthly expenditure may amount to one-12th of the appropriations adopted for the previous year's budget. The Commission may (even late in the year during which the budget is being executed) revise estimates of revenue and expenditure, by presenting supplementary and/or amending budgets.
        </p>
                    <p usage="ewyb edio casee">In May 2006 a new financial framework for the enlarged EU was formally adopted, when the EP, the Council and the Commission signed an interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management, which entered into force in January 2007.</p>
                    <p>The new Multi-annual Financial Framework (MFF) for 2021-27 was negotiated by EU leaders in 2020, with negotiations complicated by the need to finance recovery efforts amid the COVID-19 pandemic; an agreement was reached on 21 July 2020, which provided for funding of €1,074,000m. during 2021-27 (at 2018 prices). Political agreement on the MFF for 2021-27 was reached between the Parliament and the Council on 10 November 2020, and it was adopted in mid-December. From January 2021 a new category of budgetary contribution was introduced to the budget for 2021-27, based on non-recycled waste from plastic packaging. Under the 2024 budget, authorized expenditure appropriations were set at €189,385.4m. in commitments and €142,630.3m. in payments.</p>
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-sectref>
          <int-org-sectref id="SL1112165" int-org-sectrefdtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1112164" slsdocid="1103485" slsdocty="int-org-section int-org-sectrefdtd">
               
               <int-org-section id="WB02049.IO.TXT.21" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="int-org_eu" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <heading>Selected Funding Programmes</heading>
                    <p>The Common Provisions Regulation (CPR) provides a legal framework for EU funds that are jointly managed by the European Commission and EU member states (rather than being directly managed by the Commission, or indirectly managed). During 2021-27 it covers eight funds: the Cohesion Fund, the European Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund (EMFAF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund Plus (ESF+), and the Just Transition Fund (JTF), as well as the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, the Border Management and Visa Instrument, and the Internal Security Fund. These funds account for around one-third of the EU’s budget over that period.</p>
                    <int-org-section id="WB02049.IO.TXT.22" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                         <heading>Cohesion Fund</heading>
                         <p id="WB02049.IO.TXT.106">The Treaty on European Union and its protocol on economic and social cohesion provided for the establishment of a Cohesion Fund, which began operating on 1 April 1993, with a mandate to subsidize projects in the fields of the environment and trans-European energy and commu­nications networks in member states with a per-head GNI of less than 90% of the Community average. Cohesion policy was simplified for 2021-27. The level of support and the national contribution are adjusted according to the level of development: less developed regions are defined as those with levels of gross domestic product (GDP) amounting to less than 75% of the EU average; transition regions are those with GDP of between 75% and 100% of the EU average; and more developed regions have GDP of more than 100% of the EU average. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, in April 2020 the European Commission introduced the Coronavirus Response Investment Initiative and the Coronavirus Response Investment Initiative Plus, which involved the redirection of cohesion funding to areas most in need. In late May this was supplemented with the proposal of REACT EU, which was to provide targeted crisis response and recovery measures by supplementing proposed cohesion funding for 2021-27. REACT EU was allocated some €47,500m. (in 2018 prices) in 2021-27 through the EU’s Next Generation EU recovery instrument. The new Multi-annual Financial Framework (MFF) provided for cohesion funding of some €42,556m. for 2021-27 (in 2018 prices).</p>
                    </int-org-section>
                    <int-org-section id="WB02049.IO.TXT.23.12" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
                         <heading>European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development—EAFRD</heading>
                         <p usage="ewyb edio casee">The EAFRD came into operation at the beginning of 2007. It replaced the Guidance Section of the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund (which previously financed the Common Agricultural Policy—CAP) and the rural development measures previously financed under the Guarantee section. It is responsible for the single financial contribution under the CAP to rural development programmes to develop agricultural competitiveness, ensure environmental sustainability and support balanced development among rural communities. Under the MFF for 2021-27 the EAFRD was to receive €85,350m., in 2018 prices, including €7,500m. under the EU’s COVID-19 recovery plan, Next Generation EU, to help to respond to issues introduced by the pandemic.</p>
                    </int-org-section>
                    <int-org-section id="WB02049.IO.TXT.23" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
                         <heading usage="">European Agricultural Guarantee Fund—EAGF</heading>
                         <p id="WB02049.IO.TXT.107">
            The EAGF was created in September 2005 to replace the Guarantee Section of the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund. It came into operation at the beginning of 2007 and was given responsibility for, 
            <i>inter alia</i>
            , the provision of direct payments to farmers under the CAP (currently a basic payment scheme, green direct payments for sustainable farming methods and payments for younger farmers), finance for the export of agricultural products to third countries, and intervention measures to regulate agricultural markets under the Common Organization for Agricultural Markets. Under the MFF for 2021-27, the EAGF was allocated funding of some €258,594m., in 2018 prices.
          </p>
                    </int-org-section>
                    <int-org-section id="WB02049.IO.TXT.229876" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                         <heading>European Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund—EMFAF</heading>
                         <p>From 2014 the EMFF replaced the European Fisheries Fund, which was established in 1993 (having replaced the Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance, established in 1993). The EMFF was renewed for 2021-27 as the EMFAF, and aims to grant financial support to facilitate the implementation of the Common Fisheries Policy and to help support a transition to sustainable fishing, to facilitate sustainable aquaculture, to help maritime communities to diversify their economies and to stimulate employment. For 2021-27 €5,430m. was allocated to the EMFAF (in 2018 prices).</p>
                    </int-org-section>
                    <int-org-section id="WB02049.IO.TXT.24" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                         <heading>European Regional Development Fund—ERDF</heading>
                         <p id="WB02049.IO.TXT.108">Payments began in 1975. The Fund is intended to compensate for the unequal rate of development in different EU regions. It finances investment leading to the creation or maintenance of jobs, improvements in infra­structure, local development initiatives and the business activities of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in least favoured regions. The MFF for 2021-27 allocated some €200,360m. to the ERDF, in 2018 prices. Over that period investment is focused around five principal areas: providing support to SMEs, with improved digitization and digital connectivity; environmental sustainability; enhanced mobility; social inclusion (including inclusive employment and education, and access to skills and health care, as well as culture and environmentally aware tourism); and supporting local and sustainable urban development. </p>
                    </int-org-section>
                    <int-org-section id="WB02049.IO.TXT.10814258751" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                         <heading>European Social Fund Plus—ESF+</heading>
                         <p>The ESF+ was introduced for 2021-27, with funding of €88,000m. in 2018 prices. (The ESF—established in 1960—provided resources with the aim of combating long-term unemployment and facilitating the integration into the labour market of young people and the socially disadvantaged, and supported schemes to help workers to adapt to industrial changes.) The ESF+ was conceived as a cornerstone of the EU’s socioeconomic recovery from COVID-19, and includes the ESF, the Fund for European Aid to the most Deprived, the Youth Employment Initiative and the European Programme for Employment and Social Innovation.</p>
                    </int-org-section>
                    <int-org-section id="IO-EU.FUNDS.001" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
                         <heading>European Union Solidarity Fund—EUSF</heading>
                         <p>
            The EUSF was established in 2002 to support disaster response activities in member states. In 2002-early 2024 the EUSF utilized a total of over €8,600m. to respond to 110 disaster
            
             events in 24 member states and four accession states. Since April 2020, in the framework of EU efforts to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, the scope of the EUSF has been extended to cover major public health emergencies. For 2021-27 the EUSF forms part of a new Solidarity and Emergency Aid Reserve.
          </p>
                    </int-org-section>
                    <int-org-section id="IO-EU.FUNDS.2903201" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Just Transition Fund</heading>
                         <p>
            The Just Transition Fund was proposed in 2020 as part of the environment-orientated European Green Deal Investment Plan (see 
            <i>Environment</i>
            ). Under the new MFF, the Just Transition Fund was allocated some €7,500m. in 2021-27, in 2018 prices, and some €10,000m. under the EU’s Next Generation EU recovery instrument. The Fund supports economic diversification in regions of member states that are expected to be negatively impacted by the transition towards climate neutrality.
          </p>
                    </int-org-section>
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-sectref>
          <int-org-sectref id="SL1112168" int-org-sectrefdtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1112167" slsdocid="1103503" slsdocty="int-org-section int-org-sectrefdtd">
               
               <int-org-section id="WB02049.IO.TXT.27" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="int-org_eu" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                    <heading>Budget: Expenditure (Commitment Appropriations)</heading>
                    <heading-note>2024, €&#160;million, in current prices</heading-note>
                    <table-block-simple id="WB02049.IO.TXT.28" type="OTHER">
                         <table pgwide="NO" style="WITH-RULES">
                              <tgroup cols="2">
                                   <colspec colwidth="12cm" />
                                   <colspec colname="COLSPEC3" colwidth="4.00cm" />
                                   <thead>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">MFF heading</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Total</entry>
                                        </row>
                                   </thead>
                                   <tbody>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Single Market, Innovation and Digital</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">21,493.4</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Cohesion, Resilience and Values</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">74,560.7</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Natural Resources and Environment</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">57,338.6</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Migration and Border Management</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3,892.7</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Security and Defence</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2,321.2</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Neighbourhood and the World</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">16,230.0</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry style="DOT-LEADER">European Public Administration</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">11,988.0</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">
                                                  <b>Total</b>
                     (incl. special instruments)
                  </entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">189,385.4</entry>
                                        </row>
                                   </tbody>
                              </tgroup>
                         </table>
                         <sources>
                              <source-head>Source</source-head>
                              <source-info>
              European Union, 
              <i>Official Journal of the European Union</i>
                              </source-info>
                         </sources>
                    </table-block-simple>
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-sectref>
          <int-org-sectref id="SL1117738" int-org-sectrefdtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1117737" slsdocid="1117683" slsdocty="int-org-section int-org-sectrefdtd">
               
               <int-org-section id="WB02049.IO.TXT.1052479183" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="int-org_eu" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                    <heading>Budget: Revenue</heading>
                    <heading-note>2024, € million, in current prices</heading-note>
                    <table-block-simple id="WB02049.IO.TXT.29" type="OTHER">
                         <table pgwide="NO" style="WITH-RULES">
                              <tgroup cols="2">
                                   <colspec colwidth="12cm" />
                                   <colspec colname="COLSPEC1" colwidth="4.00cm" />
                                   <thead>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Source of revenue</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Total</entry>
                                        </row>
                                   </thead>
                                   <tbody>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Miscellaneous revenue</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">6,131.1</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Customs duties and sugar levies</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">24,620.4</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry style="DOT-LEADER">VAT-based own resource</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">23,616.1</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Plastic packaging waste own resource</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">7,093.6</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Gross national income-based own resource</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">81,169.1</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">
                                                  <b>Total</b>
                                             </entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">142,630.3</entry>
                                        </row>
                                   </tbody>
                              </tgroup>
                         </table>
                         <sources>
                              <source-head>Source</source-head>
                              <source-info>
              European Union, 
              <i>Official Journal of the European Union</i>
                              </source-info>
                         </sources>
                    </table-block-simple>
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-sectref>
          <int-org-sectref id="SL1117747" int-org-sectrefdtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1117746" slsdocid="1117694" slsdocty="int-org-section int-org-sectrefdtd">
               
               <int-org-section id="WB02049.IO.TXT.1052479239" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="int-org_eu" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                    <heading>National Contributions to the EU Budget</heading>
                    <table-block-simple id="WB02049.IO.TXT.30" type="OTHER">
                         <table pgwide="NO" style="WITH-RULES">
                              <tgroup cols="3">
                                   <colspec colwidth="12cm" />
                                   <colspec colwidth="4cm" />
                                   <colspec colwidth="4cm" />
                                   <thead>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Country</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Contribution for 2024 (€ million, in current prices)</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">% of total</entry>
                                        </row>
                                   </thead>
                                   <tbody>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Austria</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2,801.3</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.5</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Belgium</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3,982.1</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3.6</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Bulgaria</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">687.8</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.6</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Croatia</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">534.2</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.5</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Cyprus</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">191.3</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Czech Republic</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2,182.8</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.0</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Denmark</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2,235.8</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.0</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Estonia</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">289.0</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.3</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Finland</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,889.6</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.7</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">France</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">21,093.2</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">18.9</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Germany</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">25,164.5</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">22.5</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Greece</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,544.3</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.4</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Hungary</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,611.3</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.4</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Ireland</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2,773.6</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.5</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Italy</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">14,529.0</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">13.0</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Latvia</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">309.6</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.3</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Lithuania</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">515.1</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.5</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Luxembourg</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">396.5</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.4</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Malta</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">128.6</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.1</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Netherlands</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">4,743.0</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">4.2</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Poland</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">5,705.7</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">5.1</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Portugal</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,924.5</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.7</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Romania</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2,368.1</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.1</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Slovakia</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">850.0</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.8</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Slovenia</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">461.2</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.4</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Spain</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">10,404.8</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">9.3</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Sweden</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2,561.8</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.3</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                             <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">
                                                  <b>Total</b>
                                             </entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">111,878.8</entry>
                                             <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">100.0</entry>
                                        </row>
                                   </tbody>
                              </tgroup>
                         </table>
                         <sources>
                              <source-head>Source</source-head>
                              <source-info>
              European Union, 
              <i>Official Journal of the European Union</i>
                              </source-info>
                         </sources>
                    </table-block-simple>
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-sectref>
     </int-org-entry>
     