<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="INT-ORG_EU.ACTIVITIES" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
          <int-org-entry-head>
               <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                    <org-entry-name>Activities of the European Union</org-entry-name>
               </int-org-name-group>
          </int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-sectref id="SL1111987" int-org-sectrefdtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1111986" slsdocid="1103219" slsdocty="int-org-section int-org-sectrefdtd">
               
               <int-org-section id="WB02048.IO.TXT.271" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="int-org_eu" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <heading>Agriculture and Rural Development</heading>
                    <!--NB for 2024 see https://agriculture.ec.europa.eu/sustainability/environmental-sustainability/low-input-farming/pesticides_en-->
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.3" usage="ewyb edio casee">Agriculture and rural development remains the largest single item on the EU budget, although expenditure declined significantly between the mid-1980s and the mid-2010s. The Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), which took effect from 1962, was devised to ensure food self-sufficiency for Europe following the food shortages of the post-war period and to ensure a fair standard of living for the agricultural community. Its objectives were described in the Treaty of Rome, now the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. Markets for agricultural products were progres­sively organized following three basic principles: unity of the market (products must be able to circulate freely within the Union and markets must be organized according to common rules); EU preference (products must be protected from low-cost imports and from fluctuations on the world market); and common financial responsibility: the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF—which, with the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, EAFRD, replaced the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund in 2007) finances the export of agricultural products to third countries, intervention measures to regulate agricultural markets, and direct payments to farmers.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.4" usage="ewyb edio">Serious reform of the CAP began in 1992, following criticism of the European Community’s agricultural and export subsidies. Reforms were adopted in May, which aimed to transfer the Community’s agricultural support from upholding prices to maintaining farmers’ incomes, thereby removing the incentive to overproduce. Intervention prices were reduced, and farmers were compensated by receiving additional grants, which, in the case of crops, took the form of a subsidy per hectare of land planted. To qualify for these subsidies, arable farmers (except for those with the smallest farms) were obliged to remove 15% of their land from cultivation (the `set-aside’ scheme). In March 1999 the European Council concluded an agreement on the Agenda 2000 programme, which aimed to reinforce Community policies and to restructure the financial framework of the EU with a view to enlargement. Rural development was designated the second `pillar’ of the CAP (the first pillar being income support to farmers and market management measures), and the continuing agricultural reform process placed particular emphasis on environmental concerns, safeguarding a fair income for farmers, streamlining legislation and decentralizing its application. Forestry was recognized as an integral part of rural development.</p>
                    <p usage="ewyb edio casee">The accession of 10 new states to the EU in May 2004 doubled the EU’s arable land area and its farming population. In October 2002 it was agreed that the enlargement process would be part-funded by a deal to maintain farm subsidies at 2006 levels until 2013, with a 1% annual correction for inflation, and that new members would be offered direct farm payments at 25% of the level paid to existing member states, rising to 100% over 10 years. A deal for CAP reform was formally adopted in September 2003. A Single Farm Payment, linked to environmental, food safety and animal welfare standards, replaced subsidies. Overall, 90% of direct payments to farmers were separated from production. However, obligatory `decoupling’ (severing the link between payments and production) was only partial for beef, cereal and mutton. Payments above €5,000 a year were progressively reduced in 2005-07. Under the principle of `modulation’, an increasing percentage of direct farm subsidies was retained by individual member states to finance rural development measures. The reforms provided for the equivalent of at least 80% of the funds gathered in each member state (90% in Germany) to be spent in that country. Implementation of the CAP reforms commenced on 1 January 2005.</p>
                    <p usage="ewyb edio casee">Meanwhile, in April 2004 agreement was reached for CAP reform of the olive oil, cotton, hops and tobacco sectors, extending the principle of decoupling aid from production to these commodities; a significant share of the existing production-linked payments were to be transferred to the Single Farm Payment, although production-linked subsidies were permitted. In September 2006 the European Court of Justice annulled the CAP provisions on cotton, and subsequently proposed maintaining the support arrangements agreed in 2004, while providing for additional funding in cotton producing regions.</p>
                    <p usage="ewyb edio">The EU agreed reforms to the sugar industry in November 2005, following a World Trade Organization ruling that the existing level of subsidy breached legal limits. The EU produced large surpluses of sugar, which were disposed of on the world market to the detriment of more competitive producers, notably developing countries. The reforms, implemented over four years from July 2006, included the gradual reduction of the internal EU market price and compensatory direct aid payments to EU sugar producers. A restructuring fund, financed by sugar producers, was established to ease the transition to greater competitiveness. </p>
                    <p usage="ewyb edio">
          New rules concerning the fruit and vegetable sector entered into force in January 2008, notably including the integration of the sector into the Single Farm Payment scheme; the requirement that producer organizations allocate at least 10% of their annual expenditure to environmental concerns; an increase in EU funding for the promotion of fruit and vegetable consumption and for organic production; and the abolition of export subsidies for fruit and vegetables. A regulation on the reform of the wine sector that was adopted in April provided, 
          <i>inter alia</i>
          , for the inclusion of the sector in the Single Farm Payment scheme and the phased withdrawal, by 2012, of distillation subsidies.
        </p>
                    <p>In November 2008 the European Council reached agreement on reforms for 2009-13, raising the rate of decoupling in countries that maintained the link between subsidy and production; providing for reform of the dairy sector; abolishing the set-aside scheme from 2009; and providing for a gradual reduction in payments to farms qualifying for subsidies, so that by 2012 10% of funds (rather than 5%) would be transferred to the rural development budget. </p>
                    <p usage="ewyb edio casee">In December 2013 the Council formally adopted four basic regulations providing for a simplified, reformed CAP, to be implemented during 2014-20; this prioritized greater transparency and the promotion of long-term sustainability, competitiveness and diversity of the agricultural sector. The budget for agricultural research and innovation was to be increased twofold, supported by a new European Innovation Partnership. The distribution of direct payments was to be made more equitable: by 2019 no single member state was to receive less than 75% of the EU average; only practising farmers were to be eligible for income support, and incentives were to be introduced to encourage younger farmers to enter the sector. Sugar quotas were to be removed by the end of 2017 (milk quotas expired in 2015). Under the reforms the Commission could intervene temporarily to manage the volume of agricultural products in the market; a `crisis reserve’ was to be established; and farmers were encouraged to take part in risk prevention schemes. A `greening’ component was to reward environmental competitiveness by directing up to 30% of the value of direct payments towards improved use of natural resources, through crop diversification; the preservation of grassland; and the conservation of areas of ecological interest. The Single Farm Payment was replaced by the Basic Payment Scheme from 2015; however, the transitional Single Area Payments Scheme, which had been introduced to administer payments to the member states that acceded in 2004 and 2007, would remain in place until 2020.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.27" usage="ewyb edio">An agreement on welfare, which came into effect in 1996, limited transportation of livestock to a maximum of eight hours in any 24-hour period, and stipulated higher standards for their accommodation and care while in transit. A ban on veal crates came into effect in January 1998. A directive establishing minimum standards for the welfare of farm animals was adopted by the Council in July. In April 2001 the Commission adopted new rules for long-distance animal transport. A new regulation further improving the welfare of animals during transportation was adopted in December 2004. In June 1999 EU ministers responsible for agriculture agreed to end egg production from hens kept in barren battery cages from 1 January 2012. A directive laying out minimum standards for the protection of pigs was applicable from January 2003 to newly built or rebuilt holdings, and from January 2013 to all holdings. A similar directive was adopted in June 2007 for the protection of chickens kept for meat production.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.26" usage="ewyb edio">The EU has adopted a number of protective measures to prevent the introduction of organisms harmful to plants. Regulations governing the deliberate release of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) into the environment have been in force since October 1991. An updated directive took effect in October 2002. A further regulation adopted in January 2004 specified a system to identify and trace each GMO product used in the production of food and animal feeds, completing the EU’s regulatory framework on the authorization, labelling and traceability of GMOs. By June 2009 15 EU member states had adopted specific legislation on the co-existence of GMOs with conventional and organic crops. In 2015 a directive modified earlier legislation on GMO crops, to grant member states greater flexibility in deciding whether to cultivate particular GMO crops.</p>
                    <p usage="ewyb edio">In 2004 the Commission, with support from the Council, presented a European action plan for organic food and farming, aimed at promoting the development of organic farming in the EU. A regulation on organic production and labelling came into force from January 2009. Rules regulating imports of organic foods were approved in December 2006. From July 2010 all pre-packaged EU organic products were required to carry an EU organic food logo. In May 2018 the Council adopted a regulation providing for new legislation on organic farming, which entered into force at the beginning of 2022, providing for increased controls to help strengthen consumer confidence in organic food production, new rules to assist smaller producers in the conversion to organic farming, new regulations on imports in order to ensure that organic food sold in the EU is of an equitable standard, and an extended range of products that can be marketed as organic.</p>
                    <p>
          In June 2018 the European Commission published proposals for the CAP in 2021-27. The proposals envisaged a CAP budget representing almost one-third of the total EU budget, to be split between direct support for farmers and market measures, and rural development; greater support per hectare would be provided for small and medium-sized farms, and member states would have increased flexibility to transfer a percentage of their CAP allocations between direct payments and rural development, and to environmental and climate measures. In December 2020 a CAP budget (in current prices) of some €386,600m. for 2021-27 was approved. The implementation of the proposed reforms, including efforts to improve environmental, economic and social sustainability as part of the EU’s new environmental strategy, the European Green Deal (see 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="WB02048.IO.TXT.283">
                              <i>Energy, Environment and Climate</i>
                         </xr>
          ), were postponed until 1 January 2023, owing to ongoing negotiations between the European Parliament and the Council. In the mean time, existing CAP measures remained in place. In June 2021 the two institutions concluded a provisional political agreement on the new CAP, which was formally adopted in December. During 2023-27 the CAP was to focus on 10 principal objectives: ensuring a fair income for agricultural workers; competitiveness; improving the position of farmers in relation to the food value chain; action to combat climate change; care of the environment; preservation of landscapes; generational renewal; protecting rural areas; protecting both food quality and health; and fostering knowledge and innovation. Twenty-eight CAP strategic plans were designed and approved (one for each member state, with two for Belgium) in the context of these objectives and the new CAP began on 1 January 2023. Green Deal targets for 2030 were included in the so-called Farm to Fork Strategy, announced by the Commission in May 2020, focusing on sustainability in food production, distribution and consumption, as well as on reducing food waste, and on the EU’s Biodiversity Strategy for 2030. The new CAP provided for a more equitable division of CAP income support, with member states expected to allocate 10% of their direct payments to a redistributive income support tool, to allow for higher payments for smaller-scale farmers.
        </p>
                    <p>
          Following lobbying from farmers’ representatives and a number of intense protests in early 2024 by farmers in many EU member states (
          
          including demonstrations in the centre of Brussels during European Council meetings) against what were perceived to be unfair farming and environmental policies, reduced payments for farm products and cheap imports of agricultural products, in March the Commission outlined proposals to review parts of the CAP to increase flexibility and reduce administrative burdens on small farmers.
        </p>
                    <!--https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_7639-->
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-sectref>
          <int-org-sectref id="SL1112019" int-org-sectrefdtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1112018" slsdocid="1103229" slsdocty="int-org-section int-org-sectrefdtd">
               
               <int-org-section id="WB02048.IO.TXT.272" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="int-org_eu" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <heading>Fisheries</heading>
                    <p usage="ewyb edio casee">The Common Fisheries Policy (CFP), which came into effect in January 1983, confirmed a 200-mile (370-km) zone around the regional coastline (excluding the Mediterranean) within which all members had access to fishing, and allowed exclusive national zones of six miles with access between six and 12 miles from the shore for other countries according to specified historic rights. Rules furthering conservation (e.g. standards for fishing tackle) were imposed under the policy, with checks by a Community fisheries inspectorate. In December 1992 European Community ministers agreed to extend the CFP for a further 10-year period. Two years later ministers concluded a final agreement on the revised CFP, allowing Spain and Portugal to be integrated into the policy by 1 January 1996. In October 1995 ministers for fisheries agreed a regime to control fishing in the so-called Irish box, off south-west Ireland.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.31" usage="ewyb edio casee">The organization of fish marketing involved common rules on size, weight, quality and packing and a system of guide prices established annually by the Council. Export subsidies were introduced to enable the export of fish onto the lower-priced world market, and import levies were introduced to prevent competition from low-priced imports. A new import regime took effect from May 1993, enabling regional fishermen’s associations to increase prices to up to 10% over the Community’s reference price.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.34" usage="ewyb edio">With a view to protecting marine life such as dolphins and sharks, the Council prohibited the use of drift nets in the Atlantic Ocean and Mediterranean Sea in June 1998 (the ban entered into force in January 2002) and in the Baltic Sea in March 2004 (with effect from January 2008). In April 2004 the Council adopted a regulation stipulating the use of active acoustic deterrent devices on fishing nets throughout most EU waters, to prevent dolphins and porpoises from becoming entangled in the nets.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.37" usage="ewyb edio">With concern over the depletion of mature fish stocks continuing to mount (cod stocks in the North Sea were calculated in the early 2000s to have declined to one-10th of their 1970 level), in June 2002 the Commission proposed a procedure for setting annual total allowable catches (TACs). The Commission also proposed the temporary closure of areas where endangered species had congregated, and more generous EU aid for the decommissioning of vessels. In December 2002 the Commission introduced catch limits for deep-water fish species, complemented by a system of deep-sea fishing permits (TACs for deep-sea fishing are revised every two years). In 2004 the Commission extended the scope of the use of TACs to more fish stocks and introduced a number of closed areas for heavily depleted species.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.2002" usage="ewyb edio casee">Radical reform of the CFP, aimed at ensuring the sustainable development of the industry, was announced in 2002. New measures were introduced in January 2003 substantially amending structural assistance in the fisheries sector. The new framework provided for a long-term approach to maintaining fish stocks. Quotas for catches of cod, whiting and haddock were reduced, fishermen were guaranteed only nine days a month at sea (with provision to extend this to 15 days in some circumstances), and public funding for the renewal or modernization of fishing boats (which tends to increase the fishing catch) was largely abolished after 2004. Measures were also announced to develop co-operation among the various fisheries authorities and to strengthen the uniformity of control and sanctions throughout the EU. In an attempt to compensate for the ongoing decline of the EU fishing fleet, a number of socioeconomic measures were introduced, including aid from member states to those who had temporarily to halt their fishing activities and for the retraining of fishermen for work outside the fisheries sector, while permitting them to continue fishing on a part-time basis. A regulation setting up an emergency fund to encourage the decommissioning of vessels was also adopted.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.349876" usage="ewyb edio casee">In July 2004 the Council adopted a common framework on the establishment of regional advisory councils (RACs) to facilitate co-operation in maintaining sustainable fisheries. In April 2005 a Community Fisheries Control Agency (now European Fisheries Control Agency—EFCA) was established to strengthen the uniformity and effectiveness of enforcement of fisheries regulations by pooling EU and individual countries’ means of control and monitoring and by co-ordinating enforcement activities.</p>
                    <p usage="ewyb edio casee">In January 2009 the European Commission adopted the first EU Plan of Action for the Conservation and Management of Sharks, which also aimed to protect related species, such as skates and rays, within and outside European waters. In January 2010 new rules to strengthen the CFP control system entered into force, comprising regulations on combating illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing; authorizations for the EU fleet operating outside EU waters; and a control system for ensuring compliance with CFP rules. Under the new IUU regulations, all marine fishery products traded within the EU were to be certified and their origin made traceable under a comprehensive catch certification scheme. In May 2018 the Commission published proposals for reform of the Fisheries Control System, to take into account changes introduced by reform of the CFP. Negotiations between the Council and the European Parliament (EP) began in late 2021, and provisional agreement was reached in May 2023 to update existing rules on fishing vessels in order to prevent overfishing.</p>
                    <p>The Commission published its draft proposals for CFP reform in July 2011, which provided for returning fish stocks to sustainable levels. Clear targets and timetables were to be introduced to prevent overfishing and to benefit small-scale fisheries, while providing transferrable fishing concessions. In February 2013 EU ministers responsible for fisheries agreed gradually to introduce the so-called landing obligation from 2015, effectively banning discards (dead fish and marine organisms unintentionally caught in excess of quotas that were dumped overboard) by 2019. The reformed CFP came into effect on 1 January 2014 following its approval by the Council and the EP in October and December 2013, respectively.</p>
                    <p>The European Fisheries Fund (EFF), which functioned during 2007-13 as the financial instrument of the CFP, was replaced by a new European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EMFF), with a budget of some €6,400m. for 2014-20. The EMFF was responsible for implementing the objectives of the revised CFP, assisting fishermen to adapt to more sustainable methods of fishing and helping coastal areas to diversify their economies. In July 2016 European Commission proposal was adopted, which extended the responsibilities of the EFCA to help to improve border control and security by exchanging information with the new European Border and Coast Guard Agency and the Euro­pean Maritime Safety Agency.</p>
                    <p>In December 2016 the EP and the Council adopted a regulation strengthening deep-sea fishing regulations in the north-east Atlantic, in order further to contribute to sustainability. The CFP committed the EU to returning overall fish stocks to sustainable levels by 2020. Particularly in northern and western waters, overfishing decreased substantially, and fish stocks increased; however, although in 2016 biomass there, on average, was almost 39% greater than the 2003 level, the EU was unable to fulfil the 2020 target.</p>
                    <p>A new European Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund (EMFAF) replaced the EMFF for 2021-27, with funding amounting to some €6,100m., in current prices. The majority of funding was to be used for the management of fisheries (with a particular focus on small-scale, coastal fisheries), the promotion of aquaculture and fishing fleets, while the remainder was to provide for other measures, including scientific advice, monitoring, and maritime surveillance and security.</p>
                    <p>The Commission put forward proposals in February 2023 for the fisheries sector (which is highly reliant on fossil fuels) to work towards climate neutrality by 2050, which included an Energy Transition Partnership for EU Fisheries and Aquaculture. The proposals also included measures—the Marine Action Plan—to address climate change, pollution, loss of biodiversity and the impact of fishing on the seabed, with an action plan to mitigate the effect of fishing on marine ecosystems as part of the EU Biodiversity Strategy for 2030. A Pact for Fisheries and Oceans was proposed in early 2023, and as part of this a `Fishers of the Future’ participatory project was launched in November to examine the future role of the fisheries sector up to 2050.</p>
                    <p>
          Meanwhile, following the UK’s departure from the EU on 31 January 2020, bilateral negotiations took place during 2020 to determine issues including access to fisheries, for implementation from the beginning of 2021. The final trade and co-operation agreement, with provisional effect from 1 January 2021, provided for 25% of EU fishing rights in UK waters to be transferred to the British fishing fleet over the course of a five-year adjustment period, to conclude at the end of June 2026. Under the terms of the agreement, EU access to UK waters was to be reduced by 15% in the first year and by 2.5 percentage points in each subsequent year. Access to UK waters was to be subject to re-negotiation at the end of the adjustment period. In December 2021 the Council approved an EU-UK fishing agreement, determining rights and TACs for shared fish stocks in EU and UK waters during 2022; agreement was reached in December 2022 and 2023 on fishing rights for shared fish stocks for 2023 and 2024, respectively, including for
          
           certain deep-sea stocks.
        </p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.XX" usage="ewyb edio">Bilateral fisheries agreements have also been signed with other countries (Norway, the Faroe Islands and Iceland—although that agreement is described as `dormant’) allowing limited reciprocal fishing rights and other advantages (`reciprocity agreements’), and with some African and Indian Ocean countries and Pacific Islands that receive technical and financial assistance in strengthening their fishing industries in return for allowing EU boats to fish in their waters. Following the withdrawal of Greenland from the Community in February 1985, Community vessels retained fishing rights in Greenland’s waters, in exchange for financial compensation. </p>
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-sectref>
          <int-org-sectref id="SL1112023" int-org-sectrefdtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1112022" slsdocid="1103238" slsdocty="int-org-section int-org-sectrefdtd">
               
               <int-org-section id="WB02048.IO.TXT.273" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="int-org_eu" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <heading>Research and Innovation</heading>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.40" usage="edio casee">In the amendments to the Treaty of Rome, effective from July 1987 (now the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union), a section on research and technology (subsequently restyled `research and innovation’) was included, defining the extent of Community co-operation in this area. Most of the funds allocated to research and innovation are granted to companies or institutions that apply to participate in EU research programmes.</p>
                    <p>In January 2000 the Commission launched an initiative to establish a European Research Area (ERA) to promote the more effective use of scientific resources within a single area, in order to enhance the EU’s competitiveness and generate employment. The European Research Council (ERC), an independent funding body for science, commenced operations in February 2007. The mandate of the European Research Area Committee (now European Research Area and Innovation Committee) was approved by the Council in May 2010, replacing a Scientific and Technical Research Committee established in 1995; it provides strategic policy advice to the Council, the Commission and the EU member states on research and innovation issues of relevance to the ERA.</p>
                    <p>In February 2006 the Commission recommended the establishment of a European Institute of Technology (EIT), to promote excellence in higher education, research and innovation, and based on a Europe-wide network of `knowledge and innovation communities’ (partnerships comprising higher education institutions, research organizations, companies and other interested parties). From April 2010 the headquarters of the EIT (known as the European Institute of Innovation and Technology since 2008) were based in Budapest, Hungary.</p>
                    <p usage="ewyb edio casee">
          In December 2006 the Council adopted a decision establishing the Seventh Framework Programme for research and technological development (FP7, which was implemented during 2007-13), and also established the Seventh Framework Programme of Euratom, for nuclear research and training activities in 2007-11. In October 2010 the Commission adopted a communication on the Innovation Union, designed to help the EU economy to recover from economic crisis, by encouraging global competitiveness and innovation. FP7 was superseded by the EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, `Horizon 2020’, covering 2014-20, with a budget of some €80,000m. In 2015, under Horizon 2020, the three policy objectives of open innovation, open science, and open to the world were established. Horizon 2020 was superseded by Horizon Europe for 2021-27, with a budget of €76,400m. (in 2018 prices), plus additional funding of some €8,000m. Horizon Europe introduced a new European Innovation Council (EIC), intended to complement the work of the EIT. The EIC, which became operational in 2018-20 during a pilot phase, supports innovation by means of two funding instruments: the EIC Pathfinder supports researchers investigating `high risk, high gain’ new technologies, while the EIC Accelerator supports innovative projects being developed by small and medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs). The EIC became fully operational in March 2021, and a new European Innovation Council and SMEs Executive Agency was established in Brussels. The EU’s research and innovation budget for 2021-27 (in 2018 prices) also allocated €1,757m. to the Euratom Research and Training Programme and €5,000m. to the International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER—see 
          <i>Energy, Environment and Climate</i>
          ).
        </p>
                    <p>In order to provide analysis of the EU’s performance in innovation, the Commission has used a set of performance indicators to draw up an annual European Innovation Scoreboard (EIS). The EIS for 2023 identified Denmark as the top innovator, and other `innovation leaders’ as Sweden, Finland, the Netherlands and Belgium.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.45" usage="ewyb edio">
          The EU has made efforts to integrate space science into its research activities, and has collaborated with the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="ESA.IO">European Space Agency (ESA)</xr>
          . In September 2000 the EU and ESA adopted a joint European Strategy for Space, and the two bodies established a joint task force in 2001. A jointly drafted European Space Policy, providing a common political framework for space activities in Europe, was adopted in May 2007. The European Commission, ESA and Eurocontrol developed the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS), the first pan-European satellite navigation system, extending the US Global Positioning System (GPS). In April 2009 ownership of EGNOS was transferred to the Commission. The Commission and ESA have also collaborated in the development of a European satellite and navigation system, Galileo, consisting of about 30 satellites at full operational capability, a global network of tracking stations, and central control facilities in Europe. The European Global Navigation Satellite System Supervisory Authority intended to use the Galileo, GPS and Global Navigation Satellite systems to provide a global, integrated satellite navigation service under civilian control. Galileo became operational in December 2016. Meanwhile, in October a new Space Strategy for Europe was announced by the Commission, which aimed, 
          <i>inter alia</i>
          , to encourage Galileo to be utilized by mobile devices and to increase connectivity in remote locations; to facilitate access to satellite data by companies, in order to develop new services and applications; to encourage private investment for relevant new businesses; and to support the development of industrial space hubs in European regions. The EU and ESA signed a declaration on a joint European space policy, demonstrating the importance to both institutions of close co-operation on space. A new `space port’, at Esrange in Sweden’s far north, the first mainland satellite launch port
          
           in the EU, was inaugurated in early 2023.
        </p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.47" usage="ewyb edio">The Joint Research Centre (JRC) was established in 1958, in Brussels, Belgium, under the European Atomic Energy Community. Directed by the European Commission, but relying for much of its funding on individual contracts, the JRC is based across six sites, in five countries—Ispra, Italy; Brussels and Geel, Belgium; Karlsruhe, Germany; Seville, Spain; and Petten, Netherlands. Although nuclear research and development remain major concerns of the institutes, their research efforts have diversified substantially.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.48" usage="ewyb edio casee">The EU co-operates with non-member countries in bilateral research projects. The Commission and more than 48 (mainly European) countries—including EU members as individuals—participate, as full members, in the EUREKA (European Research Co-ordination Agency) programme of research and development in market-orientated industrial technology, which was launched in 1985. The EU’s research and development information service (CORDIS) disseminates the findings of EU-funded research programmes.</p>
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-sectref>
          <int-org-sectref id="SL1112027" int-org-sectrefdtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1112026" slsdocid="1103261" slsdocty="int-org-section int-org-sectrefdtd">
               
               <int-org-section id="WB02048.IO.TXT.274" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="int-org_eu" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <heading>Energy, Environment and Climate</heading>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.49" usage="ewyb edio casee">
          The treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) came into force on 1 January 1958. This was designed to encourage the growth of the nuclear energy industry in the Community by conducting research, providing access to information, supplying nuclear fuels, building reactors and establishing common laws and procedures. A common market for nuclear materials was introduced in 1959 and there is a common insurance scheme against nuclear risks. In 1977 the Commission began granting loans on behalf of Euratom to finance investment in nuclear power stations and the enrichment of fissile materials. An agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) entered into force in the same year, to facilitate co-operation in research on nuclear safeguards and controls. The EU’s Joint Research Centre (JRC, see 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="WB02048.IO.TXT.273">
                              <i>Research and Innovation</i>
                         </xr>
          ) conducts research on nuclear safety and the management of radioactive waste.
        </p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.50" usage="ewyb edio casee">The Joint European Torus (JET), an experimental thermonuclear machine designed to pioneer new processes of nuclear fusion, based in Culham, UK and largely funded by Euratom, was in operation between 1984 and December 2023. JET was to be decommissioned by 2040; fusion experiments were to continue under the International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER), in Cadarache, France, which was expected to become operational in late 2025. Work carried out as part of the JET project contributed significantly to preparations for ITER (a joint endeavour between the EU, Switzerland, the UK, the People’s Republic of China, India, Japan, the Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation and the USA). The European Joint Undertaking for ITER and the Development of Fusion Energy (now known as Fusion for Energy) was established in March 2007 to manage the EU’s contribution to ITER, and in November overall responsibility for ITER was formally assumed by the newly established ITER International Fusion Energy Organization. In October 2014 the Commission officially launched the European Consortium for the Development of Fusion Energy (EUROfusion), superseding the European Fusion Development Agreement and incorporating 29 bilateral association agreements between the Commission and research institutions.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.52" usage="ewyb edio">Legislation on the completion of the internal energy market, adopted in 1990, aimed to encourage the sale of electricity and gas across national borders by opening national networks to foreign supplies, obliging suppliers to publish their prices and co-ordinating investment in energy. In 2000 European electricity and gas energy regulators established the Council of European Energy Regulators, a not-for-profit association that promotes voluntary co-operation. In 2003 the Second Energy Package was adopted (the First Energy Package directives were adopted in, respectively, 1996 and 1998), providing for markets to be opened up by July 2004 for non-domestic users and by July 2007 for domestic users. The European Regulators Group for electricity and gas (ERGEG) was established in November 2003 to act as an advisory group of independent national regulatory authorities to assist the Commission in consolidating the internal energy markets. </p>
                    <p>In June 2009 the Council adopted the Third Energy Package. This included regulations on conditions for access to natural gas transmission networks and the network for cross-border exchanges in electricity, and provided for the ERGEG to be superseded by the Slovenia-based Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (ACER), which became operational in 2011. The Third Energy Package aimed to separate energy supply and production from network operations; to ensure fair competition both within the EU and with respect to third countries; to strengthen the national energy regulators; and to create European Networks of Transmission Oper­ators for both electricity (ENTSO-E) and gas (ENTSO-G). In July 2009 the ENTSO-E took over all the operational tasks of the hitherto six European Transmission System Operators associations. The ENTSO-G was established in December, comprising 33 Transmission System Operators from 22 European countries.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.9865" usage="edio">In October 2005 the EU signed a treaty establishing an Energy Community, which entered into force in July 2006, and extended the EU’s internal energy market to South-Eastern Europe and further afield (non-EU member states that are contracting parties to the treaty include Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Georgia, Kosovo, Moldova, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Serbia and Ukraine). Armenia, Norway and Turkey (now Türkiye) were admitted as observers. The treaty, which aimed to facilitate the creation of an integrated pan-European market for electricity and gas, required the signatories to adopt EU energy regulations.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.56" usage="ewyb edio casee">
          The EU promoted trans-European networks (TENs, see also 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="WB02048.IO.TXT.278">
                              <i>Transport</i>
                         </xr>
          ), with the aim of developing European energy, telecommunications and transport through the interconnection and opening up of national networks. Revised guidelines for the TEN-Energy (TEN-E) programme were adopted by the Council in July 2006, and a revised TEN-E regulation entered into force in June 2022, which established new rules on cross-border energy infrastructure; aimed to further develop the EU offshore strategy and encourage co-operation between member states in the generation of offshore renewable energy; and supported hydrogen transport networks. In November 2013 the European Parliament (EP) approved the EU’s new infrastructure policy, with the introduction of the new Connecting Europe Facility (CEF) for the fields of transport, energy and telecommunications. The CEF was allocated funds for energy of €5,180m. for 2021-27 (in 2018 prices).
        </p>
                    <p>Environmental action by the EU was initiated in 1972. The Maastricht Treaty, which entered into force in November 1993, gave environmental action policy status, and the Treaty of Amsterdam identified sustainable development as one of the overall aims of the EC. In June 1998 European heads of state and of government launched the Cardiff Process, requiring the integration of environmental considerations into all EU policies. The European Environment Agency located in Copenhagen, Denmark, became operational in No­vember 1994, and monitors environmental issues, provides targeted information to policymakers and the public and disseminates comparable environmental data. The agency is open to non-EU countries and was the first EU body to have members from the accession states.</p>
                    <p>
          The online European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (E-PRTR) provides data for EU member states, as well as Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Serbia and Switzerland, on pollutants and industrial sectors, including industrial activities. The European Parliament (EP) approved legislation in April 2004, which sought to make firms that caused pollution liable for the cost of repairing the damage caused to natural habitats, water resources and wildlife. In January 2011 a new Industrial Emissions Directive entered into force, intended, 
          <i>inter alia</i>
          , to tighten emissions limits in certain industrial sectors, to introduce minimum standards for environmental inspections of industrial installations and to extend the scope of legislation to cover other polluting activities, such as medium-sized combustion plants. In April 2022 the Commission proposed transforming the E-PRTR into an EU Industrial Emissions Portal as part of proposals to revise the Industrial Emissions Directive. 
        </p>
                    <!--https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_2238-->
                    <p>
          The EU has approved numerous international instruments relating to the environment. In June 2000 the Commission launched the European Climate Change Programme (ECCP), which aimed to identify and develop a strategy needed to meet commitments under the Kyoto Protocol, and to incorporate climate change concerns into various EU policies. ECCP II was launched in October 2005, with the aim of reviewing the progress of individual member states towards achieving their own targets on reducing emissions, and developing a framework for EU climate change policy beyond the expiry of the Kyoto Protocol. Meanwhile, in April 2009 the Council adopted new climate change legislation, committing EU member states to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% in 2013-20, compared with emissions levels in 1990. The Council also agreed to increase the use of renewable energy sources to 20% by 2020, and to increase energy efficiency by 20% by the same date. In March 2015 the EU submitted its planned contribution to a new climate action plan to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). In December representatives of 195 countries met in Paris, France, for the 21st Conference of the Parties (COP) of the UNFCCC, where a universal, legally binding climate agreement was adopted for the first time. The so-called Paris Agreement entered into force in November 2016, incorporating pledges to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, increase investment in low carbon infrastructure and finance climate adaptation and mitigation in developing countries, in order to limit the rise in global temperatures to less than 2°C (in comparison with pre-industrial levels), with the stated objective of a 1.5°C limit. The Commission represented the EU at the UN Biodiversity Conference (known as COP15) held in Montréal, Canada, in December 2022, at which the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework was adopted, which aimed to prevent loss of biodiversity, restore ecosystems and protect the rights of indigenous peoples.
          <!--https://www.unep.org/news-and-stories/story/cop15-ends-landmark-biodiversity-agreement-->
                    </p>
                    <p>
          In April 2009 the Council and the EP adopted a regulation on setting carbon dioxide (CO
          <sub>2</sub>
          ) emissions performance standards for new passenger cars. In September 2014 a directive on Clean Power for Transport was adopted, committing member states to developing national policies for the development of alternative fuels and introducing common technical specifications for recharging and refuelling stations. In October 2015 EU member states agreed to the gradual introduction, from September 2017, of supplementary Real Driving Emissions tests to help to determine whether new cars should be permitted to enter the vehicle market. In November 2017 the Commission published proposals for a Clean Mobility Package, comprising revised targets for CO
          <sub>2</sub>
           emissions from new cars and vans for both 2025 and 2030. In February 2023 the EP formally approved a proposal that the passenger car industry must achieve a 55% reduction in CO
          <sub>2</sub>
           emissions (compared with 2021 levels) from new cars sold from 2030 and a 100% cut by 2035 (effectively stopping the sale of petrol and diesel cars), so as to ensure the carbon neutrality of the transport sector by 2050. 
        </p>
                    <p>In September 2005 the Commission presented a them­atic strategy on air pollution, prepared under the auspices of Clean Air for Europe (CAFE), a programme launched in March 2001. The new air quality policy focused on particulates and ground-level ozone pollution, which were known to pose the greatest risk to human health. In April 2008 a new air quality directive was approved by the Council, which merged existing legislation into a single directive, and imposed limits on fine particle emissions (PM2.5) from vehicles, agriculture and small-scale industry for the first time. Emissions of PM2.5 in urban areas were to be reduced by 20% by 2020, compared with 2010 levels. A new CAFE was adopted in December 2013, specifying objectives for air quality until 2030. A new directive to minimize pollution from medium-sized combustion plants was adopted by the Council and the EP in November 2015, entering into force in December. In December 2016 the EP and the Council signed into law a new National Emissions Directive, with effect from 31 December, which strengthened limits on five principal pollutants and thus sought to reduce pollution-related ill health by almost 50% by 2030.</p>
                    <p>In October 2005 the Commission proposed a strategy to protect the marine environment, which aimed to ensure the environmental health of EU marine waters, under the sixth environmental action programme (EAP, 2002-12). A Marine Strategy Framework Directive was adopted by the EP and the Council in June 2008. A directive on the assessment and management of flood risks entered into force in November 2007, requiring member states to conduct preliminary assessments to identify river basins and associated coastal areas at risk of flooding, to develop flood risk maps for areas deemed to be at risk, and to establish flood risk management plans for these areas by 2015. In March 2009 the European Commission finalized an EU-wide review of the safety of pesticides used in plant protection products that were on the market before 1993; the review resulted in the removal from sale of more than two-thirds of the substances assessed. In September 2020 an EU report established European threshold values for beach litter, establishing that there should be fewer than 20 items of litter for every 100 metres of coastline. </p>
                    <p usage="ewyb edio">In September 2000 a directive on end-of-life vehicles (ELVs) was adopted, which compelled manufacturers to pay for the disposal of new cars from July 2002 and of old cars from January 2007. EU directives on waste electronic and electrical equipment and the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electronic and electrical equipment came into force in February 2003. In January 2005 the Commission adopted a new strategy on reducing mercury pollution. Mercury exports from the EU have been prohibited since March 2011. </p>
                    <p>
          A regulation revising EU laws on trade in wild animals and plants was adopted in December 1996. A series of directives adopted in 2002 formulated new EU policy on the conservation of wild birds, fishing and protection for certain species of whales. In April 2012 the EP adopted a resolution on the EU 2020 Biodiversity Strategy, which sought to prevent the loss of the benefits of biodiversity and ecosystems and to help halt biodiversity loss worldwide by 2020. In June 2022 the Commission proposed a Nature Restoration Law to restore damaged ecosystems, aiming to have nature restoration measures in place in at least 20% of the EU’s land and sea areas by 2030, and in all damaged ecosystems in the EU by 2050. A directive on the protection of the environment through criminal law, originally adopted in 2008, was revised in 2023, with provisional agreement reached in November; under the directive, new penalties were to be introduced by member states for individuals or companies inflicting substantial environmental damage.
          <!--https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2023/nov/17/eu-criminalises-environmental-damage-comparable-to-ecocide-->
                         <!--https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_3746-->
                    </p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.161" usage="ewyb edio">
          The voluntary Eco-Management and Audit Scheme was launched in April 1995. Under the scheme, participating industrial companies undergo an independent audit of their en­vironmental performance. In addition, the EU awards `ecolabels’ for products that limit harmful effects on the environment (including foodstuffs, beverages and pharmaceutical products, among others). A Green Claims Directive was put forward by the Commission in March 2023, which proposed penalizing companies making misleading environmental (`greenwashing’) claims.
          
           The directive was adopted by the European Council in February 2024.
        </p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.4910" usage="ewyb edio">In October 2003 the Commission presented a new Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals system (REACH) environmental policy. Originally intended to collate safety information on tens of thousands of potentially dangerous chemicals used in consumer goods industries, following intensive lobbying by the chemicals industry sector, REACH’s scope was reduced. The REACH regulation was formally adopted in December 2006. The European Chem­icals Agency, which is responsible for managing REACH, commenced operations in Helsinki, Finland, in June 2007. In December 2008 the Commission adopted a regulation aligning the EU system of classification, labelling and packaging of chemical substances and mixtures to the UN Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals. In October 2020 the Commission adopted a new Chemicals Strategy for Sustainability.</p>
                    <p>The Institute for Environment and Sustainability, located in Ispra, Italy, was created in 2001 as part of the Joint Research Centre to provide research-based support to the development and implementation of European environmental policies. The earth observation programme Copernicus, managed by the European Commission and previously known as Global Monitoring for Environment and Security, provides information on six main areas: land, marine, atmosphere, climate change, emergency management and security. Data gathered by Copernicus is used to help to formulate environmental legislation and policy, to respond to emergency situations and to facilitate scientific research. The first Copernicus satellite was launched in April 2014 in French Guiana.</p>
                    <p>A new LIFE+ funding programme was adopted in May 2007, following on from the earlier LIFE programme for environment and climate action. The LIFE programme for 2014-20 was allocated a budget of some €3,400m., which was increased to €5,400m. for 2021-27, in current prices. In December 2012 the Commission announced proposals for the seventh EAP, with three principal thematic goals for 2014-20: the protection of nature and improvements in ecological resilience; increased sustainable, resource-efficient, low-carbon growth; and addressing environmental health risks. The programme also sought to improve the sustainability of EU cities, and to help the EU to address more effectively international environmental and climate challenges.</p>
                    <p>
          In February 2010 a Directorate-General for Climate Action was established, to help to mitigate the consequences of climate change, to ensure targets on climate change are met, and to oversee the EU Emissions Trading System (EU ETS), launched in January 2005 as the EU Emissions Trading Scheme. The EU ETS obliged companies that exceeded their allocation of CO
          <sub>2</sub>
           emissions to buy extra allowances from more efficient companies or incur considerable fines. Individual companies were allocated a free greenhouse gas emission allowance by national governments. If they reduced emissions beyond their allocated quota, they were allowed to sell their credits on the open market. The first phase, covering 2005-07, applied only to large industrial and energy undertakings in certain sectors and only covered CO
          <sub>2</sub>
           emissions. Several member states opted to extend the scope of the EU ETS for the second trading period (2008-12), and it incorporated revised rules for monitoring and reporting, more stringent restrictions on emissions, and an increased number of combustion sources. A directive incorporating the aviation sector into the EU ETS, capping aviation sector emissions from January 2012, entered into force in February 2009. The third trading period (2013-20) introduced, notably, an EU-wide cap on emissions replacing the national targets hitherto in place. Auctioning (as opposed to free allocation) became the default method for the allocation of allowances. Measures were introduced to deal with a surplus of emission allowances, which had accumulated in the ETS since 2009. In January 2019 a new market stability reserve commenced operations in an effort to improve the resilience of the ETS to significant shocks by allowing excess allowances to be transferred to the reserve, thereby amending the supply of allowances for auction. During 2005-19 emissions from installations to which the ETS applied declined by some 35%. As part of the EU’s new European Green Deal (see below), the Commission introduced legislative proposals in July 2021 under the `Fit for 55’ programme for the implementation of new targets on sustainability, which were adopted by the Council in April 2023, lowering permitted emissions annually in energy generation, energy intensive industries and commercial aviation, aiming to reduce emissions by 62% by 2030 (compared with 2005 levels). Emissions from the shipping sector were also added to the EU ETS. At the same time, a new temporary Social Climate Fund was established, which was to operate in 2026-32 with a budget of €65,000m. (plus co-financing of 25% from the member states), to offer financial support to vulnerable citizens and small businesses in member states with energy efficiency measures. The EU ETS operates in all member states, as well as in Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. As part of `Fit for 55’ a new Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM) was introduced in a transitional phase from October 2023, which applied to certain carbon intensively produced imports (e.g. cement, iron and steel, electricity and fertilizers). In the initial phase, from January 2024 importers were obliged to report direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions within their imports; payments under the CBAM certification system were due to start from January 2026.
          <!--https://taxation-customs.ec.europa.eu/carbon-border-adjustment-mechanism_en-->
                    </p>
                    <!--https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_7796-->
                    <p>The Renewable Energy Directive, adopted in 2009, established EU-wide policy for the production and promotion of energy from renewable sources. The renewable energy sector was to supply 20% of EU energy by 2020, compared with 6.6% in 1990 and 9.6% in 2004. </p>
                    <p>In January 2014 the Commission published a policy framework for energy and climate during 2020-30, which envisaged a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions (compared with 1990 levels). In May 2014 the Commission announced a new Energy Security Strategy, and in February 2015 the Commission adopted the Framework Strategy for a Resilient Energy Union with a Forward-Looking Climate Change Policy, based around security, solidarity and trust; an integrated internal energy market; energy efficiency; climate action to `decarbonize’ the economy; and research, innovation and competitiveness.</p>
                    <p>In November 2016 the Commission proposed a Fourth Energy Package, to complete the internal energy market and implement the Energy Union. Adopted in 2019, the package comprised eight new pieces of legislation. The strategy revised energy targets for implementation by 2030, introducing a binding renewable energy target of at least 32%, and an energy efficiency target of at least 32.5%. The renewable energy target was revised upwards, to 42.5%, in March 2023; the provisional agreement also included targets for renewable energy in buildings, industry and transport, as well as shortening the permission process for wind farms and solar panels. </p>
                    <p>
          In December 2019 the European Commission published a communication on the new European Green Deal, which included the pledge to make the EU `carbon neutral’ by 2050, and to reduce carbon emissions to 55% of 1990 levels by 2030
          <!--NB LOOK AT https://commission.europa.eu/strategy-and-policy/priorities-2019-2024/european-green-deal_en-->
           . The Commission presented an Investment Plan for the European Green Deal in January 2020, together with a Just Transition Mechanism, which aimed to ensure measures adopted were equitable, through the provision of targeted support. A new European Climate Law was proposed by the Commission in March, and a European Climate Pact was launched in December as an EU-wide initiative to involve various community institutions and organizations action to benefit the climate and the natural environment.
        </p>
                    <p>
          The eighth EAP, for 2021-27 identified six principal objectives: working to achieve the 2030 reduction target for greenhouse gas emissions and to attain climate neutrality by 2050; developing greater adaptive capacity and resilience, and limiting vulnerability to climate change; adapting a so-called regenerative growth model, by removing the link between economic growth and resource use, moving instead towards the evolution of a `circular’ economy; aiming for a `zero pollution’ strategy, with respect to air, water and soil, and working to protect the health of the EU population; protecting and restoring biodiversity and natural resources (air, water and soil, and related ecosystems); and reducing the environmental and climate-related impact linked to production and consumption (with respect, in particular, to energy, industry, infrastructure, mobility and food). Provisional political agreement was reached in March 2024 on a proposal for a regulation on packaging and packaging waste generated in the EU, to ensure that packaging is reused and recycled; and for a regulation holding companies (of more than 1,000 employees and at least €450m. in annual turnover) liable for supply-chain environmental or human rights abuses.
          <!--https://environment.ec.europa.eu/strategy/environment-action-programme-2030_en-->
                    </p>
                    <p>
          In July 2020 the Commission adopted new strategies for the integration of energy systems and for investment in the use of clean hydrogen technologies to help to achieve its objectives. It was envisaged that the contribution of renewable hydrogen to EU energy production would increase from less than 2% in 2018 to 13%-14% by 2050. In July 2021 the Commission adopted proposals on `Delivering the European Green Deal’, confirming a Europe 2030 emissions reduction target of at least 55% by 2030 (`Fit for 55’), in comparison with 1990 levels, and the intention for the EU to be `carbon neutral’ by 2050. Five pieces of `Fit for 55’ legislation were adopted by the Council in April 2023, revising the EU ETS (see above). In its programme for 2023, the Commission stated that it aimed to establish a `hydrogen bank’ that would assist in the scaling up of the EU green hydrogen economy and invest in developing a hydrogen market; a first pilot auction for €800m. in subsidies payable to producers of renewable hydrogen was launched in November. In February 2023 the Commission put forward the Green Deal Industrial Plan, which would aim to increase the production capacity of key green technologies in the EU (see 
          <xr id="WB02048.IO.TXT.275" pageref="N">
                              <i>Internal Market, Industry, Entrepreneurship and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises</i>
                         </xr>
          ).
        </p>
                    <!--https://www.europarl.europa.eu/RegData/etudes/BRIE/2022/734669/EPRS_BRI(2022)734669_EN.pdf-->
                    <p>
          In March 2022, in response to the Russian Federation’s military invasion of Ukraine on 24 February, the European Commission published proposals to end the reliance of EU member states on Russian fossil fuels, notably gas, before 2030. The proposals also provided for measures to be introduced in response to rising energy prices across the EU and to ensure adequate gas stocks in the short term. The Versailles Declaration was adopted on 10-11 March, comprising, 
          <i>inter alia</i>
          , a declaration on the Russian aggression against Ukraine, and the EU’s stated commitment to reducing energy dependency on Russia. A new scheme, REPowerEU, was developed with the aim of diversifying gas supplies, accelerating the use of renewable energy and reducing the EU’s dependence on Russian gas. A temporary emergency regulation was proposed by the Commission in November 2022 to accelerate the REPowerEU programme, and political agreement was reached in December between the EP and the Council on the financing of REPowerEU through the Recovery and Resilience Facility as part of member states’ Recovery and Resilience Plans. In December the Commission proposed emergency intervention to reduce demand for electricity and to assist consumers with high energy costs. 
        </p>
                    <!--https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_7717-->
                    <!--https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_5489-->
                    <!--In early 2023 the Commission proposed new rules on greenwashing (claims made by companies about the environmental impact of their products) to cover all products and services (excluding financial services) on sale in the single market, with any environmentally-friendly claims assessed using the product environmental footprint (PEF) and other relevant methodologies.-->
                    <!--in the FT - may be too specialized? cjh jan 2023-->
                    <!--https://www.ft.com/content/5dde3181-3112-4280-8357-9b7881b7ae4c-->
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-sectref>
          <int-org-sectref id="SL1112035" int-org-sectrefdtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1112034" slsdocid="1103263" slsdocty="int-org-section int-org-sectrefdtd">
               
               <int-org-section id="WB02048.IO.TXT.275.2" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="int-org_eu" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <heading>Internal Market, Industry, Entrepreneurship and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises</heading>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.59" usage="ewyb edio casee">The Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) came into force in July 1952, and by the end of 1954 nearly all barriers to trade in coal, coke, steel, pig iron and scrap iron had been removed. The ECSC treaty expired in July 2002, and the provisions of the ECSC treaty were incorporated in the European Economic Community treaty, on the grounds that it was no longer appropriate to treat the coal and steel sectors separately.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.66" usage="ewyb edio casee">In 1990 the European Council adopted two directives with the aim of removing the tax obstacles encountered by companies operating across borders: the Merger Directive was designed to reduce tax measures that could hamper business reorganization and the Parent-Subsidiary Directive abolished double taxation of profit distributed between parent companies in one member state and their subsidiaries in others. In October 2001 the European Council adopted two legislative instruments enabling companies to form a public European Company (Societas Europaea—SE), giving companies operating in more than one member state the option of establishing themselves as single companies, thereby able to function throughout the EU under one set of rules and through a unified management system. In July 2003 the Council adopted similar legislation enabling co-operatives to form a European Co-operative Society (Societas Cooperativa Europaea—SCE). Reform of the EC Merger Regulation entered into effect in May 2004. A directive aimed at facilitating cross-border mergers of limited liability companies was adopted by the European Parliament (EP) and the Council in October 2005.</p>
                    <p usage="ewyb edio casee">In November 2005 the Commission launched a new policy framework for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). A Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme (CIP), targeted primarily at SMEs, was implemented during 2007-13. In June 2008 the Commission adopted the Small Business Act for Europe (SBA) to streamline bureaucratic procedures for SMEs and promote entrepreneurship. By 2010 SMEs accounted for 99% of all EU enterprises. A programme for the Competitiveness of Enterprises and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (COSME), was implemented in 2014-20, which from 2021 became part of a new Single Market Programme, which was to support the implementation and monitoring of EU legislation in relation to the internal market for goods and services, market surveillance, standardization, competition and financial services, while supporting the European recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. It was also to provide advisory services to SMEs, in particular through the Enterprise Europe Network (which was launched in 2008 to provide information to businesses).</p>
                    <p>
          The Commission published an action plan for a competitive and sustainable steel industry in mid-2013. A Commission communication in January 2014 entitled `For a European Industrial Renaissance’, established the Commission’s industrial policy objectives and emphasized the fundamental role of industry in stimulating both growth and employment, and the full potential of the single market. The Commission recognized, 
          <i>inter alia</i>
          , that with relatively scarce natural resources and strong commitments to both social and environmental standards, EU member states struggled to compete globally in terms of low prices; however, it recommended that the EU’s industrial sector be stimulated through a focus on innovation, new technologies and skills. In April 2016 the Commission adopted a communication on `Digitising European Industry’ as part of the strategy for the creation of a Digital Single Market. The Start-up and Scale-up Initiative, proposed by the Commission in November, sought to encourage the creation of industrial start-ups in the EU through simplified taxation measures, improved access to financing and amendments to legislation on insolvency, to facilitate restructuring. In September 2017 the Commission published proposals for a renewed industrial policy strategy, entitled `Investing in a Smart, Innovative and Sustainable Industry’. A so-called Industry 2030 High Level Industrial Roundtable of experts was set up by the Commission in December 2017 in order to provide independent advice on EU industrial policy; in mid-2019 the grouping provided its final report, setting out recommendations in `A Vision for Industry until 2030’. In March 2020 the Commission proposed a new `industrial strategy for a globally competitive, green and digital Europe’, as part of the newly conceived European Green Deal (see 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="WB02048.IO.TXT.283">
                              <i>Energy, Environment and Climate</i>
                         </xr>
          ). In February 2023 the Commission put forward the Green Deal Industrial Plan, which would aim to increase the production capacity of key green technologies in the EU, with a focus on four areas: a simplified regulatory environment (including a Net-Zero Industry Act, proposed in March, to set goals for `clean technology’ by 2030
          
          ; provisional agreement was reached on the Act in February 2024); access to funding; skills development; and strong and resilient supply chains.
        </p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.00456" usage="ewyb edio casee">The European Patent Convention (EPC) was signed in 1973 and entered into effect in 1977. A revised EPC entered into force in December 2007. In June 1997 the Commission pub­lished proposals to simplify the European patent system through the introduction of a unitary Community patent (renamed the EU patent after the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty in December 2009), to remove the need to file patent applications with individual member states. In December 2009 European Council agreed a draft regulation on the EU patent, in accordance with which it was envisaged that the EU would accede to the EPC (which would require further revision to the Convention), and the European Patent Office (based in Munich, Germany) would grant EU patents with unitary effect throughout the territory of the EU. In December 2012 the EP approved the so-called patent package, comprising two draft regulations, on increased co-operation to facilitate unitary patent protection and associated translation arrangements, and an agreement on the establishment of a Unified Patent Court, which prepared the way for the introduction of a European patent with unitary effect. The agreement establishing the Unitary Patent Convention (UPC) was signed in February 2013 and the new Unitary Patent System and the Unified Patent Court became operational in June 2023. Unitary Patents were, initially, to cover all member states that had already ratified the UPC agreement (currently 17 member states have done so: Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Portugal, Slovenia and Sweden).</p>
                    <!--https://www.epo.org/applying/european/unitary/unitary-patent/start.html#:~:text=The%20new%20system%20is%20intended,and%20%22classic%22%20European%20patents.-->
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.662435" usage="ewyb edio casee">An Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market, based in Alicante, Spain, was established in December 1993. It became the European Union Intellectual Property Office in 2016 and is responsible for the registration of Union trademarks and for ensuring that these receive uniform protection throughout the EU.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.65" usage="ewyb edio casee">The liberalization of public procurement has played an important role in the establishment of the single market. From January 1993 the liberalization of procurement was extended to include public utilities in the previously excluded sectors of energy, transport, drinking water and telecommunications. In 2002 the EP adopted a regulation aimed at simplifying the rules on procurement of contract notices; a regulation updating the system for classifying public procurement was adopted in November 2007. The European Public Procurement Network was established in January 2003, comprising all EU member states, EU candidate countries, European Economic Area (EEA) members, Switzerland and other European countries, to strengthen the application of public procurement rules through a mutual exchange of experience. Reforms to the EU’s public procurement directives were adopted in 2004 in an effort to improve transparency and efficiency. In April 2012 the Commission adopted a communication outlining a strategy for a full transition to e-procurement (procurement by electronic means of communication) throughout the EU, gradually from April 2016. The Commission adopted a new public procurement strategy in October 2017, which identified six strategic policy objectives focusing on: increased uptake of innovative, environmentally sound and social procurement; good practice among public procurement; increased access to markets; improving the transparency and integrity of data; digitization; and greater co-operation. In April 2020 the Commission published new guidance to help buyers make use of flexibility in the EU’s public procurement framework to ensure that equipment required in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic could be made readily available, for example by accelerating the public procurement process.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.70" usage="ewyb edio">
          In addition to the Enterprise Europe Network, the EU’s other information services for business include the Community Research and Development Information Service (CORDIS, see 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="WB02048.IO.TXT.273">
                              <i>Research and Innovation</i>
                         </xr>
          ) and the Your Europe portal (europa.eu/youreurope/business/index_en.htm), which provides practical information on doing business in Europe. In addition, more than 106 certified and 43 associate Business and Innovation Centres operate in the EU countries and outside the EU, with a mission to promote entrepreneurship and the creation of innovative businesses, and to assist existing companies to enhance their prospects through innovation.
        </p>
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-sectref>
          <int-org-sectref id="SL1112039" int-org-sectrefdtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1112038" slsdocid="1103267" slsdocty="int-org-section int-org-sectrefdtd">
               
               <int-org-section id="WB02048.IO.TXT.276" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="int-org_eu" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <heading>Competition</heading>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.74" usage="ewyb edio casee">The Treaty of Rome establishing the European Economic Community (now the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union—TFEU) provided for the creation of a common market based on the free movement of goods, people, services and capital. Article 101 of the TFEU bans anti-competitive agreements between market operators, while Article 102 prohibits abusive behaviour by companies. The EU’s competition policy aims to guarantee the unity of the internal market, by providing access to a range of high-quality goods and services, at competitive prices. The Commission has wide investigative powers in the area of competition policy. It may act on its own initiative, or after a complaint from a member state, firm or individual, or after being notified of agreements or planned state aid. Before taking a decision, the Commission organizes hearings; its decisions can be challenged before the General Court and the European Court of Justice, or in national courts.</p>
                    <p>Prior to the enlargement of the EU in May 2004, the Commission worked to establish detailed provisions for a modernised framework for antitrust and merger control. In that month major changes to EU competition law and policy (including reform of the European Community Merger Regulation) entered into force. The European Competition Network commenced operations in 2004, comprising the competition authorities of all EU member states and the Commission. A directive signed into law in December 2018 empowers national competition authorities to enforce competition policy more effectively, and to help improve uniformity throughout the EU.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.76" usage="ewyb edio casee">The TFEU prohibits any state aid, agreements and practices that distort or threaten to distort competition in the common market (for example by discriminating in favour of certain firms or the production of certain goods, price-fixing, imposing production or delivery quotas, market-sharing agreements, creating exclusive collective markets, collective boycotting, and voluntary restraints on competitive behaviour); however, some exceptions are permitted where the proposed aid may have a beneficial impact in overall Union terms or where certain types of co-operation may considered to be positive, such as agreements promoting technical and economic progress. In the period 2019-23 fines amounting to 3,796.8m. were imposed on cartels.</p>
                    <p>
          As an integral part of competition policy, control of state aid helps to maintain competitive markets. The Commission acts to recover any illegal or incompatible state aid. The procedural rules on state aid were consolidated and clarified in 1999, and provided for several exemptions, notably regarding the provision of aid to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and for training. Amid widespread recession, in December 2008 the European Commission adopted a Temporary Framework for State Aid, which aimed to assist member states in co-ordinating the provision of credit facilities to businesses until 2010 (later extended until the end of 2011). In December 2011 the Commission revised and extended rules governing state aid to financial institutions during the ongoing economic crisis. A revised methodology was also agreed concerning the remuneration of guarantees for banks’ funding needs. The rules were to apply for as long as required by market conditions, and were amended in August 2013. Meanwhile, in February 2012 the Commission published a guidance paper on state aid-compliant financing, and restructuring and privatization of state-owned enterprises. In July 2014, as part of its State Aid Modernisation initiative, the Commission adopted amended guidelines for evaluating the support measures applied by member states for companies experiencing difficulties. The guidelines (which did not apply to financial institutions) sought to ensure that public funding was channelled appropriately and that investors assumed an equitable proportion of restructuring costs, rather than allowing the burden to be carried by taxpayers. In July 2016 mandatory transparency requirements for state aid came into force. Since 2001 the Commission has analysed state aid granted by member states in its State Aid Scoreboard. According to the 2022 State Aid Scoreboard, in 2021 EU member states spent €334,540m. (representing some 2.3% of gross domestic product—GDP) on state aid (excluding aid to railways and the financial sector). 
          <!--https://competition-policy.ec.europa.eu/system/files/2022-09/state_aid_scoreboard_note_2021.pdf-->
                    </p>
                    <p>
          In mid-March 2020 the Commission proposed a new Temporary Framework for State Aid to support the economy amid the COVID-19 pandemic, aiming, 
          <i>inter alia, </i>
          to enable member states to establish schemes to provide direct grants (or tax advantages) to businesses; to offer public and private loans with subsidized rates of interest; and to direct aid to the economy via banks in order to safeguard customers, in particular SMEs. The Framework was expanded during 2020 and repeatedly extended
          
           until 30 June 2022, after which a transitionary period for the restructuring of debt instruments until 30 June 2023 was introduced. In March 2022 the Commission adopted the State Aid Temporary Crisis and Transition Framework, in the context of the Russian Federation’s invasion of Ukraine, to assist businesses affected by the conflict; the Framework was to be operational until the end of 2025, as part of the Green Deal Industrial Plan (see 
          <i>Internal Market, Industry, Entrepreneurship and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises</i>
          ).
        </p>
                    <!--https://competition-policy.ec.europa.eu/state-aid/ukraine_en-->
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.78" usage="ewyb edio casee">Mergers that would significantly impede competition in the common market are banned. The Commission examines prospective mergers in order to decide whether they are compatible with competition principles. In July 2001 the EU blocked a merger between two US companies for the first time, on the grounds that EU companies would be adversely affected. A new merger regulation came into force in May 2004, introducing some flexibility into the timeframe for investigations into proposed mergers. Measures to simplify procedures for reviewing mergers came into effect from 1 January 2014.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.80" usage="ewyb edio casee">The Commission seeks to abolish monopolies in the networks supplying basic services to member states. Liberalization has been pursued in the provision of postal services, and the gas and electricity, telecommunications and transport sectors. In December 2006 a directive entered into force opening up the services sector to cross-border competition. Notably, a company offering services in another country would be governed by the rules and regulations of the country in which the service was being provided (rather than those of the company’s home country, as the Commission had favoured). The European Parliament agreed a list of legitimate reasons that a country could cite for restricting the activities of foreign service providers, such as national security, public health and environmental protection.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.4523" usage="ewyb edio">In April 2015 the Commission alleged that the US technology company Google had abused its market dominance by distorting results in its search engine in favour of its own shopping services; an antitrust investigation was also launched into the company’s Android mobile operating system. In June 2017 the Commission imposed a fine of €2,424.5m. on Google for violating EU antitrust rules by giving illegal preference to its own shopping services. Two further antitrust cases brought against Google by the EU meant that fines issues to the company had reached a total of over €8,200m.</p>
                    <p>The Directorate-General for Competition co-operates with foreign competition authorities and promotes competition instruments in applicant countries, where it also provides technical assistance.</p>
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-sectref>
          <int-org-sectref id="SL1112046" int-org-sectrefdtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1112045" slsdocid="1103270" slsdocty="int-org-section int-org-sectrefdtd">
               
               <int-org-section id="WB02048.IO.TXT.277" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="int-org_eu" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <heading>Communications, Content, Technology and the Digital Single Market</heading>
                    <p usage="ewyb edio casee">
          In 1991 the Council adopted a directive requiring member states to liber­alize their rules on the supply of tele­communi­ca­tions terminal equipment, thus ending the mono­polies of national telecommu­nications au­thor­ities. Also in 1991 the Television without Frontiers directive came into force, establishing minimum standards for television programmes to be broadcast freely throughout the Community. A directive relating to the liberalization of satellite telecommunications equipment and services came into effect in 1994. In October 1995 and January 1996, respectively, the European Commission adopted directives liberalizing the use of cable telecommunications and opening the EU market for mobile telephone networks to full competition. All the major EU tele­communi­cations markets were, in principle, open to competition from 1998. A comprehensive reform of the regulatory framework for telecommunications was launched in July 2000, with the aim of developing a single regulatory framework for the telecommunications, media and information technology (IT) sectors. In December 2001 the European Parliament (EP) approved legislation that empowered the Commission to oversee national regulatory regimes and, in some cases, to overrule national regulatory authorities. By the end of 2003 the EU regulatory framework for electronic communications had been implemented. Political agreement was reached in December 2023 on a new European Media Freedom Act, originally put forward by the Commission in September 2022, which would create a common framework for the media, 
          <i>inter alia </i>
          protecting providers from political interference.
        </p>
                    <p>In May 2005 the Commission set a target of 2012 for completing the transition from analogue to digital broadcasting. The Audiovisual Media Services without Frontiers directive was adopted by the EP in November 2007, with legislation to be implemented by member states by December 2009. In March 2010 the Audiovisual Media Services Directive (AVMSD) was adopted, with the aim of implementing a cross-border framework. A review of the AVMSD was completed in November 2018, and a revised directive was adopted, to take into account the evolution of video-sharing technology and social media.</p>
                    <p>
          In March 2010 the European Commission launched the Europe 2020 strategy, which established the Digital Agenda for Europe; it sought to promote innovation and economic growth through the creation of a Digital Single Market. The Commission identified seven principal objectives for the Digital Agenda, including the creation of a single, online market; improved standards and interoperability for ICT; improved access to fast internet speeds; research and innovation; digital literacy; and the use of ICT to address important societal issues. The Connecting Europe Facility (CEF) was to invest, 
          <i>inter alia</i>
          , in Digital Service Infrastructures and broadband projects. In March 2015 the Commission agreed priorities for the development of the new Digital Single Market, comprising 16 specific initiatives, built around three themes: improved access to digital goods and services across Europe, for both consumers and commercial enterprises; the development of an infrastructural environment conducive to the evolution of both digital networks and innovative services; and stimulating potential for growth in the digital economy and society. An annual Digital Progress Report, published by the Commission, evaluates progress in the digital policies of member states.
        </p>
                    <p>In February 2020 the Commission published its digital strategy for 2020-25, focusing on: technology that works for people; a fair and competitive economy; and an open, democratic and sustainable society. The EU aimed to create a single market for data to improve the EU’s global competitiveness and to facilitate innovation, by means of a new European Data Strategy. For the period 2021-27 the CEF was allocated funding of some €2,000m. for digital projects. In December 2020 the Commission proposed a new Digital Services Act (to help online users feel safe and to ensure accountability for internet service providers) and Digital Markets Act (for equitable, open digital markets), both of which entered into force in 2022. In March 2021 the Commission announced a new 2030 Digital Compass, which set out the EU’s digital objectives until 2030. In December 2023 the EP and the Council reached political agreement on legislation (the AI Act), which had been proposed by the Commission in 2021, regulating the use of artificial intelligence.</p>
                    <p usage="ewyb edio">In September 2013 the Commission adopted a legislative proposal for a Connected Continent, providing for the creation of a single market for mobile telephone usage, by introducing new regulations and market incentives to encourage mobile telephone operators to extend their domestic usage plans (for both telephone and mobile internet services) to consumers throughout the EU by 2016. In October 2015 the EP approved the removal of all roaming charges by June 2017, and in February 2017 final agreement was reached on the regulation of wholesale roaming markets, which would allow consumers to `roam like at home’. Also in February new rules were agreed permitting consumers from EU member states to access digital culture and entertainment services online throughout the EU, as part of efforts to modernize EU digital copyright rules under the Digital Single Market strategy, adopted in May 2015. A new copyright regulation and directive for the Digital Single Market were approved by the EP in March.</p>
                    <p>Following public consultations on broadband requirements and a review of the telecommunications framework launched in late 2015, the Commission proposed the introduction of a new European Electronic Communications Code, including simplified regulations to attract investment in high-quality infrastructure throughout the EU, encourage competition, bolster the internal market and strengthen the rights of consumers. The Code was adopted by the EP and the Council in November 2018. A further regulation adopted at the same time revised the mandate of the Body of European Regulators for Electronic Communications, and introduced a maximum rate on charges for mobile telephone calls and text messages between member states from mid-2019. The new measures sought to facilitate deployment of the fifth generation of wireless communication systems, 5G, throughout the EU.</p>
                    <p usage="ewyb edio casee">The .eu top-level domain name, aimed at giving individuals, organizations and companies the option of having a pan-European internet identity, was launched in December 2005. In May 2012 the Commission adopted the European Strategy to Make the Internet a Better Place for Children, commonly referred to as Better Internet for Kids. In February 2019 a new Expert Group on Safer Internet for Children was established, which aimed to strengthen co-ordination between member states in protecting children (for example through parental controls and age ratings) from illegal and harmful online content.</p>
                    <p>
          A European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA) became fully operational in October 2004. In June 2019 the EU Cybersecurity Act entered into force and ENISA was renamed the EU Agency for Cybersecurity, with a revised mandate. Meanwhile, the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) was adopted in April 2016 and became legally binding in May 2018. The GDPR aimed to ensure improved control of EU residents’ personal data, while rules applying to commercial businesses aimed to reduce bureaucracy to facilitate the Digital Single Market and improve consumer confidence. The regulation was expected significantly to reduce `spam’ (unsolicited) e-mails, by requiring companies worldwide, 
          <i>inter alia</i>
          , to obtain the consent of individuals in EU member states before contacting them via e-mail, or risk substantial fines. A new directive pertaining to the protection of personal data processed within the context of criminal justice and law enforcement also entered into force in May 2016, for full integration into national law by May 2018. Following the launch of a Commission communication on `A European Strategy for Data’ in February 2020, two pieces of legislation were agreed: the Data Governance Act to regulate data-sharing systems, which entered into force in June 2022 (to be applicable from September 2023); and the Data Act to regulate the use of and fair access to data, which 
          
          entered into force in January 2024 and was to become applicable in September 2025.
        </p>
                    <p>Reformed telecommunications rules were fully applicable from June 2011, reinforcing competition between operators; promoting investment in new communication infrastructure; and making communication networks more reliable and secure. The Body of European Regulators for Electronic Communications was inaug­urated in January 2010. A Network and Information Security Directive was approved by the Parliament and the Council in December 2015, outlining legal measures to improve online security.</p>
                    <p usage="ewyb edio">The MEDIA programme was introduced in 1991 to provide financial support to the television and film industry A new programme, Creative Europe, superseded the MEDIA and Culture programmes, with a budget of some €2,400m. for 2021-27.</p>
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-sectref>
          <int-org-sectref id="SL1112057" int-org-sectrefdtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1112056" slsdocid="1103274" slsdocty="int-org-section int-org-sectrefdtd">
               
               <int-org-section id="WB02048.IO.TXT.278" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="int-org_eu" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <heading>Transport</heading>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.89" usage="edio casee">The establishment of a common transport policy was stipulated in the Treaty of Rome (renamed the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union in 2009), with the aim of gradually standardizing national regulations hindering the free movement of traffic, such as the varying safety and licensing rules, diverse restrictions on the size of lorries, and frontier-crossing formalities. A 1992 White Paper setting out an EU-wide common transport policy proposed the establishment of trans-European networks to improve transport, telecommunications and energy connectivity, as well as measures aimed at protecting the environment and enhancing safety.</p>
                    <p>In March 2011 the Commission published a new White Paper on Transport Policy for a Single European Transport Area, which aimed to create a competitive and environmentally efficient transport system by 2050. The Commission detailed 40 separate initiatives for the next decade with the objective of building a competitive transport system to increase mobility; removing barriers; and aiding economic growth and employment. The proposals sought to reduce Europe’s dependence on imported petroleum and to reduce carbon emissions in the transport sector by 60% by 2050. Principal goals for fulfilment by 2050 included removing conventionally fuelled cars from cities; ensuring that 40% of aviation fuels used were sustainable, low-carbon fuels; and reducing shipping emissions by at least 40%.</p>
                    <p>In November 2013 the European Parliament (EP) approved the EU’s new infrastructure policy, with the introduction of the Connecting Europe Facility (CEF) for the fields of transport, energy and digital technologies. The CEF aimed to create a core transport network by 2030, which was to comprise nine principal corridors: two running North-South; three running East-West; and four running diagonally. Related projects included the SESAR programme (see below) and the European Rail Traffic Management System (ERTMS—see below). The CEF was allocated €11,384m. for transport in 2021-27 (in 2018 prices), with some €1,400m. made available for the improvement of cross-border railway links between countries eligible for cohesion funding.</p>
                    <p>The overall aim of the EU’s trans-European transport network (TEN-T) policy, which included so-called intelligent transport systems and services, was to unite the various national networks into a single European network, by eliminating bottlenecks and adding missing links. In January 2014 the TEN-T was relaunched as part of the EU’s new transport infrastructure policy, and a new Innovation and Networks Executive Agency (INEA) commenced operations in Brussels, managing major funding programmes relating to transport, energy and digital policy. A new European Climate, Infrastructure and Environment Executive Agency was established to replace INEA in February 2021. </p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.93" usage="edio">In 1991 directives were adopted by the Council on the compulsory use of safety belts in vehicles weighing less than 3.5 metric tons. Regulations applying to minibuses and coaches were introduced in 1996. In November 2002 the Euro­pean Parliament adopted a directive on speed limitation devices for certain categories of motor vehicles, including haulage vehicles and passenger vehicles carrying more than eight passengers. A regulation reducing maximum driving times and increasing obligatory rest periods for professional drivers and a directive increasing the number of checks on lorries entered into force in April 2007.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.94" usage="ewyb edio casee">In 1992 ministers responsible for transport approved an `open skies’ arrangement that would allow any European Community airline to operate domestic flights within another member state (with effect from April 1997). An EU-US aviation open skies agreement to create a common aviation area, encompassing some 60% of global air traffic, was formally signed with the USA in April and provisionally applied from 30 March 2008; the agreement was amended in June 2010, and applied to Norway and Iceland from June 2011.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.95" usage="ewyb edio casee">In October 2001 the Commission proposed common rules for civil aviation security, to strengthen public confidence in air transport following terrorist attacks in the USA in the previous month. Issues addressed included securing cockpits, improving air-to-ground communications and using video cameras in aircraft. Member states also agreed to incorporate into law co-operation arrangements on security measures, including control of access to sensitive areas of airports and aircraft, control of passengers and hand luggage, control and monitoring of hold luggage, and training of ground staff. In response to the threat posed to civil aviation security by liquid explosives, in October 2006 the Commission adopted a regulation, which applied to all flights departing from member states’ airports, restricting the liquids that passengers were allowed to carry beyond certain screening points at airports. </p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.97" usage="ewyb edio casee">In July 2002 the EP adopted a regulation creating a European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). The EASA (which officially opened its permanent seat in Cologne, Germany, in December 2004) covered all aircraft registered in member states, unless agreed otherwise. In April 2008 a regulation entered into force extending the responsibilities of the EASA, particularly regarding control over pilots’ licences and the regulation of airlines based in third countries operating in the EU. Meanwhile, in December 2005 EU ministers responsible for transport approved a regulation introducing the EU Safety List of airlines that had been refused permission to operate in Europe, and granting passengers the right to advance information about the identity of the air carrier operating their flight.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.98" usage="ewyb edio casee">In December 1999 the Commission presented a communication on streamlining air traffic management (ATM) to create a Single European Sky (SES), of which the overall aim was to restructure the EU’s airspace on the basis of traffic, rather than national frontiers. In December 2002 EU ministers responsible for transport agreed on a package of measures under which the separate European ATM providers would be regulated as a single entity, and EU airspace over 28,500 ft (approximately 8,690 m) would be under unified control. A first package of SES legislation (SES I), bringing ATM under the common transport policy, was adopted in April 2004. In November 2005 the European Commission launched SESAR, a Single Euro­pean Sky industrial and technological programme to develop a new ATM system. In April 2006 a directive was adopted on the introduction of a Community air traffic controller licence. In March 2009 the EP approved a second package of SES legislation (SES II), incorporating improvements aimed at addressing environmental challenges and fuel cost efficiency.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.99" usage="ewyb edio casee">In 1986 progress was made towards the establishment of a common maritime transport policy, with the adoption of regulations on unfair pricing practices, safeguarding of access to cargoes, application of competition rules and the elimination of uni­lateral cargo reservation and discriminatory cargo-sharing arrange­ments. In December 1990 the Council approved, in principle, the freedom for shipping companies to provide maritime transport anywhere within the Community. Cabotage by sea began to be introduced from January 1993 and was virtually complete by January 1999; it was also introduced in the inland waterways transport sector in 1993. By January 2000 the inland waterways market had been liberalized, although differing technical regulations among member states persisted. In October 2007 the European Commission presented a communication on its vision for the Integrated Maritime Policy (IMP), which was endorsed by the Council in December. In November 2011 the Council and the Parliament adopted a regulation providing the legal basis for the IMP.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.100" usage="ewyb edio casee">In March 2000 the Commission adopted a communication on the safety of the seaborne oil trade. In May the Commission adopted a proposal to harmonize procedures between bulk carriers and terminals, in order to reduce the risk of accidents. In the same month the Equasis database, which provides information on the safety and quality of ships, became operational. In August 2002 the European Maritime Safety Agency was established in Lisbon, Portugal. In November 2005 the Commission proposed a new package of maritime safety measures, including a requirement that member states ensure that ships flying their flags comply with international standards; an improvement in the quality and effectiveness of ship inspections; and an obligation that member states designate an independent authority responsible for the prior identification of places of refuge for ships in distress. The Commission noted that the EU accounted for some 25% of the world’s fleet.</p>
                    <p-alternates default="CASEE" type="ALTERNATES">
                         <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.102" usage="edio casee">In April 1998 the Commission published a report on railway policy, with the aim of achieving greater harmonization, the regulation of state subsidies and the progressive liberalization of the rail freight market. In October 1999 EU ministers responsible for transport concluded an agreement that was regarded as a precursor to the full liberalization and revitalization of the rail freight market. This provided for the extension of access to a planned core Trans-European Rail Freight Network (covering some 50,000 km), with a charging system designed to ensure optimum competitiveness. During 2000-04 the EU adopted three `railway packages’, which dealt with the progressive deregulation of the rail market. A European Railway Agency (ERA) opened in Lille/Valenciennes, France, in June 2005, with the aim of reinforcing the safety and interoperability of railways in the EU. In March 2005 the Commission and representatives of the rail industry signed a Memorandum of Understanding on the deployment of the ERTMS single European rail signalling system on a major part of the European network to enhance safety and reduce infrastructure costs; existing national systems were to be withdrawn gradually. Freight services and international passenger services became fully open to competition in member states from, respectively, January 2007 and January 2010. In November 2014 the Commission adopted a regulation that sought to improve access to rail travel for people with disabilities from January 2015.</p>
                         <p usage="ewyb">In October 1999 EU ministers responsible for transport concluded an agreement that was regarded as a precursor to the full liberalization and revitalization of the rail freight market. This provided for the extension of access to a planned core Trans-European Rail Freight Network (covering some 50,000 km), with a charging system designed to ensure optimum competitiveness. During 2000-16 the EU adopted four `railway packages’ on the progressive deregulation and harmonization of the rail market. A European Railway Agency (now the European Union Agency for Railways—ERA) opened in Lille/Valenciennes, France, in June 2005, with the aim of reinforcing the safety and interoperability of railways in the EU. In March 2005 the Commission and representatives of the rail industry signed a Memorandum of Understanding on the deployment of the ERTMS single European rail signalling system on a major part of the European network to enhance safety and reduce infrastructure costs; existing national systems were to be withdrawn gradually. Freight services and international passenger services became fully open to competition in member states from, respectively, January 2007 and January 2010. In November 2014 the Commission adopted a regulation that sought to improve access to rail travel for people with disabilities from January 2015.</p>
                    </p-alternates>
                    <p-alternates default="CASEE" type="ALTERNATES">
                         <p usage="edio casee">
            In January 2013 the Commission adopted proposals on a fourth railway package, which, 
            <i>inter alia</i>
            , proposed transferring substantial administrative responsibility from individual member states to the ERA, in order to help new operators to enter the market and to reduce costs
            
             and proposed that the provision of domestic rail passenger services be opened up to private companies across the EU from December 2019, with the aim of improving quality and choice and increasing passenger rail traffic. The fourth railway package comprises two pillars, relating to technical and market-related issues. The three legislative proposals making up the technical pillar (revising interoperability and safety directives and developing the role of the ERA) were formally agreed in June 2015, and adopted by the EP in April 2016. The three proposals comprising the market pillar (amending directives on opening the market for passenger rail services, the governance of infrastructure and common rules pertaining to accounting) were finally adopted by the Council in October of that year (after modification), and by the Parliament in December. In June 2019 the ERA assumed responsibility for vehicle authorization, safety certification, and ERTMS trackside approval in eight EU member states, with the remainder to follow.
          </p>
                         <p usage="ewyb">The fourth railway package comprises two pillars, relating to technical and market-related issues. The three legislative proposals making up the technical pillar (revising interoperability and safety directives and developing the role of the ERA) were formally agreed in June 2015, and adopted by the EP in April 2016. The three proposals comprising the market pillar (amending directives on opening the market for passenger rail services, the governance of infrastructure and common rules pertaining to accounting) were finally adopted by the Council in October of that year (after modification), and by the Parliament in December. In June 2019 the ERA assumed responsibility for vehicle authorization, safety certification, and ERTMS trackside approval in eight EU member states, with the remainder to follow.</p>
                    </p-alternates>
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-sectref>
          <int-org-sectref id="SL1112063" int-org-sectrefdtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1112062" slsdocid="1103278" slsdocty="int-org-section int-org-sectrefdtd">
               
               <int-org-section id="WB02048.IO.TXT.279" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="int-org_eu" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <heading>Justice, Migration and Home Affairs</heading>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.105" usage="ewyb edio casee">Under the Treaty on European Union (TEU), EU member states undertook to co-operate in the areas of justice and home affairs, particularly in relation to the free movement of people between member states. Issues of common interest were defined as asylum policy; border controls; immigration; drug addiction; fraud; judicial co-operation in civil and criminal matters; customs co-operation; and police co-operation for the pur­poses of combating terrorism, drug trafficking and other serious forms of international crime.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.111" usage="ewyb edio casee">The EU’s Charter of Fundamental Rights (CFR), which was signed in December 2000, outlines the rights and freedoms recognized by the EU. It includes civil, political, economic and social rights, with each based on a previous charter, convention, treaty or jurisprudence. The CFR may be used to challenge decisions taken by the EU institutions and by member states when implementing EU law. A reference to the CFR, making it legally binding, was included in the Treaty of Lisbon, which entered into force in December 2009 (a protocol to the treaty limits the application of the CFR in Poland to rights recognized by national legislation in that country). In June 2005 the European Commission adopted a proposal for a regulation creating an EU Agency for Fundamental Rights. The Agency was established on 1 March 2007.</p>
                    <p>
          A European Police Office (EUROPOL), facilitating the exchange of information between police forces, operates from The Hague, Netherlands; a special unit dealing with the trafficking of illicit drugs and nuclear and radioactive materials began work in 1994. EUROPOL’s mandate has been extended to cover illegal immi­grants, stolen vehicles, paedophilia, terrorist activities, money laundering and counterfeiting of the euro and other means of payment. From January 2010 EUROPOL became a full EU agency, with a stronger mandate and enhanced capability for combating serious international crime and terrorism; it was officially renamed the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Co-operation in May 2017. A European Police College, now European Agency for Law Enforcement Training (CEPOL), was created in 2000, initially as a network of existing national training institutes; a permanent CEPOL institution was formally established as an EU agency in 2005, and relocated from the UK to Budapest, Hungary, in 2014. A Council Framework Decision on the European Arrest Warrant and Surrender Procedures between Member States entered into effect from January 2004. In 2021 a total of 14,789 European Arrest Warrants were issued.
          <!--https://commission.europa.eu/law/cross-border-cases/judicial-cooperation/types-judicial-cooperation/european-arrest-warrant_en#:~:text=The%20European%20arrest%20warrant%20(%22EAW,2004%20in%20all%20Member%20States.-->
                    </p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.108" usage="ewyb edio casee">A regulation on the mutual recognition and enforcement throughout the EU of civil and commercial judgments made in the courts of member states came into force in March 2001 (except in Denmark). In 2000 a convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between member states was adopted, and a European crime prevention network was formally established in May 2001. There are also agreements within the EU on co-operation between financial intelligence units and between police forces for the purposes of combating child pornography. In September 2001 member states harmonized their definitions of human trafficking and set common minimum prison sentences. In February 2002 the EU established a `Eurojust’ unit, composed of prosecutors, magistrates and police officers from member states, to help to co-ordinate prosecutions and support investigations into incidents of serious organized crime. In May 2009 the European Parliament (EP) adopted a resolution on the establishment of an EU criminal justice area. In May 2012 the EP adopted a resolution on criminal law, establishing criteria to determine the need for legislation on criminal law, and its quality. In October 2013 the EP adopted a resolution on organized crime, corruption and money laundering, and in October 2016 a resolution on efforts to combat corruption was adopted. In January 2020 the Commission established an EU Centre of expertise for victims of terrorism to offer advice and support to national authorities and organizations assisting victims. A roadmap to combat drug trafficking and criminal networks was issued by the Commission in October 2023, with targeted actions that included a new European Ports Alliance to assist customs authorities; measures to prevent organized crime; and the dismantling of criminal networks.</p>
                    <p>
          An EU Justice Scoreboard was introduced in 2013, which monitors justice reforms implemented by countries throughout the Union and evaluates the independence and quality of the justice systems of individual member states. The scoreboard forms part of the EU’s rule of law framework, which seeks to identify threats to the rule of law in member states and to prevent them from escalating to the extent that the Commission becomes obligated to activate mechanisms under the TEU. In December 2020 the EP approved a new rule of law regulation (Conditionality Regulation), which seeks to protect the EU’s financial interests (for example through the suspension of payments to member states) in the case of violations of the rule of law by member states, with effect from 1 January 2021. In February 2022 the European Court of Justice (ECJ) rejected complaints brought by Hungary and Poland against the regulation. In April the Commission formally notified Hungary that it was to initiate the conditionality mechanism in response to breaches of the rule of law by that country; the Commission reported in November that Hungary had not sufficiently implemented the necessary remedial measures, and in December the Council suspended some €6,300m. in budgetary commitments to the country. Meanwhile, in July and October 2021 Poland’s constitutional tribunal rejected ECJ demands that changes to Poland’s judicial system be suspended immediately (the changes were held to be a breach of the principle of the supremacy of EU law); the Commission began legal proceedings in December 2021 and in February 2023 referred Poland to the ECJ, which in June found in favour of the Commission. Funding from the Commission of some €35,400m. in COVID-19 recovery grants and loans had been withheld pending judical reform in Poland.
          <!--CASEE 2024 - https://www.ft.com/content/37ab72eb-b187-4589-97c7-37875ebac123?emailId=e2d02772-1701-49cf-b400-07b2516cba5c&segmentId=488e9a50-190e-700c-cc1c-6a339da99cab-->
                         <!--https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/feb/15/european-commission-takes-poland-to-court-over-legal-polexit-->
                         <!--https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/12/12/rule-of-law-conditionality-mechanism/-->
                    </p>
                    <p>In November 2017 the EU reached agreement on the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor’s Office (EPPO), as provided for under the Treaty of Lisbon. The EPPO was to be an independent, decentralized institution, in order to investigate serious cases of cross-border crime against the EU budget (for example fraud and corruption). In September 2019 the EP and the Council selected Laura Codruţa Kövesi as the first European Chief Prosecutor. The EPPO commenced operations in mid-2021, with the participation of 22 EU member states. </p>
                    <p>In December 2013 a Rights, Equality and Citizenship programme and a new Justice programme were adopted by the EP and the Council. In May 2018 the Commission proposed the establishment of a new Justice, Rights and Values fund, to simplify the existing structure. Spending under the Justice, Rights and Values heading of the long-term budget for 2021-27 was budgeted at some €841m., in 2018 prices. The new Justice programme was to continue efforts to create a European area of justice, on the basis of the rule of law, of trust and of mutual recognition. The Rights and Values programme included the issue of citizenship, as well as focusing on the promotion of equality and rights and combating violence.</p>
                    <p>In March 2021 the Commission published a new EU Strategy on the Rights of the Child, together with a European Child Guarantee, which sought to create a policy framework to protect the rights of all children, and to ensure the most vulnerable children were able to access basic services.&#160;In February 2024 the Commission published proposals to update legislation dating from 2011 on defining, preventing and prosecuting child sexual abuse.</p>
                    <p>In June 2023 the EU acceded to the Council of Europe Convention on Preventing and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence (Istanbul Convention), which had entered into force on 1 August 2014 and which the EU had signed in June 2017. Under the EU’s Gender Equality Strategy 2020-25, in March 2022 the Commission adopted a proposal for a directive to combat violence against women and domestic violence. Political agreement on the proposed directive, which was to criminalize physical, psychological, economic and sexual violence against women, as well as female genital mutilation and forced marriage, and cyber-crimes such as online stalking and harassment, was reached between the EP and the Council in February 2024.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.113" usage="ewyb edio casee">
          Measures related to the abolition of customs formalities at intracommunity frontiers entered into force in January 1993. In June 1990 Belgium, France, Germany, Luxembourg and the Netherlands, meeting in Schengen, Luxembourg, signed a convention to implement a 1985 agreement abolishing frontier controls on the free movement of persons from 1993. Delay in the establishment of the Schengen Information System (SIS), providing a computer network on suspect persons or cargo for use by the police forces of signatory states, resulted in the postponement of its implementation. Seven countries (Belgium, France, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal and Spain) agreed to implement the agreement with effect from March 1995. Frontier controls at airports on those travelling between the seven countries were dismantled during a transition period, which ended on 1 July (France retained all of its land-border controls until March 1996). Italy joined the Schengen Group in October 1997, and Austria in December. Border controls for both countries were removed in 1998. Denmark, Finland and Sweden (and non-EU members Norway and Iceland) were admitted as observers of the accord from 1 May 1996, and all five countries joined the Schengen Group in March 2001. Meanwhile, in March 1999 signatories of the Schengen accords on visa-free border crossings began to waive visa requirements with Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. The Treaty of Amsterdam, which came into effect on 1 May, incorporated the so-called Schengen 
          <i>acquis</i>
           (comprising the 1985 agreement, 1990 convention and additional accession protocols and executive decisions), in order to integrate it into the framework of the EU. The treaty permitted Ireland to maintain permanent jurisdiction over its borders and rules of asylum and immigration, although in February 2002 the Council approved Ireland’s participation in some of the provisions of the 
          <i>acquis</i>
          . Countries acceding to the EU after 2000 were automatically to commit to the Schengen 
          <i>acquis</i>
          .
        </p>
                    <p usage="ewyb edio casee">
          Following the EU’s enlargement in May 2004, application of the Schengen 
          <i>acquis</i>
           by the newly admitted states was phased, as each new member state was first required to undergo an evaluation of its correct application of the 
          <i>acquis</i>
           in all areas, including management of land, air or sea borders, visas, security co-operation and personal data protection. Initially, therefore, border controls between the 15 existing members and the new members remained in force. The provisions of the Schengen 
          <i>acquis</i>
           were applied fully from December 2007 to the land and sea borders of nine of the countries that joined the EU in 2004, with controls at airports removed in March 2008. Non-EU member Switzerland joined the Schengen area in December 2008 and Liechtenstein in December 2011. Croatia joined in January 2023. In late 2023 agreement was reached on the accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the Schengen area. Air and maritime border controls were to be lifted in March 2024, pending a decision on the lifting of land border controls. Cyprus and Ireland remain outside the Schengen area. The original SIS was replaced by an expanded system, SIS II, in April 2013, which enables the exchange of information between border control mechanisms, police and customs authorities, with regard to, 
          <i>inter alia</i>
          , suspect or missing persons, misappropriated or lost identity documentation, vehicles, banknotes and firearms. 
        </p>
                    <p>The migration crisis affecting Europe in the wake of conflict in the Syrian Arab Republic, together with concerns about increased terrorist activity in European capitals from 2015, posed a challenge to the Schengen Agreement; many countries temporarily reintroduced border controls, owing either to persistent `secondary movements’ of migrants, or to concerns relating to potential terrorist activity. In 2020-21, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, Schengen member states imposed temporary border controls in an attempt to limit transmission of the virus.</p>
                    <p>A directive adopted in November 2003 permits third country nationals who have been resident in the EU for a period of five years to be granted the status of long-term residents. The Blue Card Directive was adopted in 2009, regulating conditions for entry and residence of highly qualified workers from outside the EU and establishing an EU-wide permit for such workers; Ireland and Denmark remained exempt from the provisions of the directive. In May 2016 a new directive was adopted regulating conditions for admission and residency for nationals from non-EU countries entering the EU for educational, research and training purposes (Ireland and Denmark remained exempt).</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.115" usage="ewyb edio casee">The Common European Asylum System (CEAS) comprises a legal framework on the asylum process, together with the European Asylum Support Office (EASO), launched in 2011. The Dublin III Regulation—which came into force in January 2014, replacing the (2003) Dublin II Regulation and the (1990) Dublin Convention on Asylum—asserts that responsibility for examining an asylum claim lies principally with the country playing the greatest role in an individual’s arrival into the EU, normally the country of entry. In June 2004 the Council adopted a decision concerning the development of the Visa Information System, a system for the exchange of visa data between member states. A Eurodac database, established in 2003, uses fingerprint comparisons to co-ordinate information on the movements of asylum seekers.</p>
                    <p>The European Migration Network was fully established following a Council directive adopted in May 2008, to provide current, comparable information on migration and asylum. The Qualification Directive, adopted by the Council in December 2011, establishes minimum standards for the qualification of third country nationals as refugees or as otherwise in need of international protection. In November 2011 the EU Immigration Portal was launched, to provide information for foreign nationals seeking to move to the EU, or to move between EU countries. A Single Permit Directive , adopted in December, established rights for non-EU workers residing lawfully in an EU member state. In June 2013 the Asylum Procedures Directive was adopted, which was fully implemented throughout the EU from July 2015. Other legislation adopted in 2013 included the Reception Conditions Directive, which replaced a 2003 directive establishing minimum standards for the reception of asylum seekers.</p>
                    <p>An Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund (AMIF) was established to operate during 2014-20, focusing on: strengthening the common European asylum system by ensuring the uniform application of EU legislation; facilitating legal migration to EU member states in compliance with labour market requirements, and assisting with the integration of non-EU nationals; implementing fair, sustainable and effective return strategies, while working to combat illegal migration; and ensuring that those EU member states most severely affected by migration and asylum issues could benefit from solidarity from other EU member states. The AMIF was renewed for 2021-27, with a budget of €9,882m. (in current prices).</p>
                    <p>Amid an upsurge in asylum applications from 2015, large numbers of migrants, attempting to reach Europe via the Mediterranean Sea, continued to die at sea. Some EU member states, such as Greece, Italy and Hungary, were particularly affected by the unprecedented numbers of migrant arrivals, leading to concerns over the application of the Dublin III Regulation. In May 2015 the Commission published a new European Agenda on Migration, which incorporated proposals for the relocation within the EU of some 40,000 refugees from the Middle East and North Africa; the Justice and Home Affairs Council agreed in July to implement the Agenda. In September the Commission sought to introduce further emergency measures, including proposals to relocate an additional 120,000 migrants identified as in need of international protection, from Greece and Italy, over a three-year period; the Commission’s proposals, supported by the EP, were adopted by the Council in September. Meanwhile, an additional agreement, reached in July, provided for the resettlement of some 22,500 people from the Middle East, the Horn of Africa and North Africa. Some countries, such as Denmark, Ireland and Sweden, negotiated exemptions from fundamental aspects of EU immigration policy. Notably, several members states, including the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia, objected to the EU’s response to the migration crisis. In April 2020 the Court of Justice ruled that the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland had violated the law by failing to fulfil their commitments under the EU’s migrant relocation scheme.</p>
                    <p>The European Agency for the Management of Operational Co-operation at the External Borders of the European Union (FRONTEX) was established in October 2004, to be primarily responsible for the creation of an integrated border management system. The Agency commenced operations on 1 May 2005, based in Warsaw, Poland. In December 2015 the Commission presented legislative proposals for the establishment of a European Border and Coast Guard. The proposals were formally adopted in September 2016 and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency was officially launched in October, retaining the acronym FRONTEX. Meanwhile, in February EU heads of government, meeting in Brussels, had expressed their commitment to the pursuit of Europe-wide, rather than unilateral, solutions to the ongoing migration crisis. In March the Council adopted a regulation establishing an emergency support mechanism to provide humanitarian assistance to member states during the European migration crisis. On 18 March a new agreement, the EU-Turkey Statement, was reached with Turkey (now known as Türkiye), according to which migrants crossing from Turkey into Greek territory, and considered not to be in immediate need of international protection, were to be returned to Turkey; the EU pledged to accept a Syrian refugee from within Turkey for each migrant returned to that country, and to provide some €6,000m. in assistance by the end of 2018. The agreement began to be implemented in April 2016. In May the Commission presented proposals for the reform of the Dublin III Regulation. In October the Council endorsed a tripartite approach for examining reform of the CEAS, focusing on the Eurodac regulation and the proposed establishment of an EU Agency for Asylum; the Dublin III Regulation and related directives and regulations; and examination of the Union Resettlement Framework, proposed by the Commission in July, and intended as a structured, longer-term policy on resettlement. In contravention of the EU-Turkey agreement, in February 2020 the Turkish Government announced that it would open the passage for migrants (following an escalation of the conflict in Syria, and an air strike that killed more than 30 Turkish soldiers). In March European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen pledged an additional €700m., together with a FRONTEX intervention force, to support Greek efforts to safeguard its border. The five-year EU-Turkey deal officially expired in early 2021.</p>
                    <p>In September 2018 plans were announced by the Commission further to reinforce both FRONTEX and the EASO. A new European Travel Information and Authorization System (ETIAS), proposed by the Commission in April 2016, was under development as part of the EU’s Security Union and in support of the European Agenda on Migration, to perform security checks in relation to visitors entering the Schengen area without a visa and to identify illegal migration and high epidemiological risk. It was subject to delays and was expected to become operational in 2025.</p>
                    <p>
           The Council reached agreement in June 2023 on the modernization of asylum and migration policies, which had initially been proposed by the Commission in September 2020 and was known as the New Pact on Migration and Asylum. 
          <!--see https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/statement_23_6708 to check and update this section cjh jan 2024-->
                         <!--https://home-affairs.ec.europa.eu/policies/migration-and-asylum/new-pact-migration-and-asylum_en-->
           Political agreement on the New Pact was reached in December 2023, and encompassed five new or revised regulations: on screening rules for non-EU nationals on arrival in the EU; on the further development of the Eurodac database to manage asylum applications; on symplifying asylum, return and border processes; on asylum and migrant management, aiming to create a more equitable system for burden sharing of migrants between EU countries; and on `crisis and force majeure’, to ensure the EU is prepared for crisis situations. An EU-Tunisia agreement was signed in July 2023, which included funding of some €127m. from the EU to help curb migration from North Africa (Tunisia having become a main departure point for migrants seeking a route to Europe). An agreement was made with Mauritania in March 2024, which included funding with the aim of helping to reduce irregular migration, the country being an embarkation point for small boats crossing from North Africa to the Canary Islands
          
           in Spain.
          <!--https://neighbourhood-enlargement.ec.europa.eu/news/commission-announces-almost-eu127-million-support-implementation-memorandum-understanding-tunisia-2023-09-22_en-->
                    </p>
                    <p>
          Following the Russian Federation’s invasion of Ukraine in late February 2022, the EU announced that it was to activate its Temporary Protection Directive to facilitate the admission of Ukrainian refugees, and enable them to live, work and access social services in EU member states for a period of up to three years without having to make an application for asylum. Under the scheme,&#160;introduced in March, refugees from Ukraine were able to access, 
          <i>inter alia, </i>
          residence permits, housing, and access to labour markets, medical assistance and schooling for children. At November 2023 some 4.2m. people were covered under the Temporary Protection Directive, which in October had been extended until March 2025.
          <!--https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/infographics/ukraine-refugees-eu/#:~:text=Rights%20under%20the%20temporary%20protection,updated%20on%204%20January%202023.-->
                    </p>
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-sectref>
          <int-org-sectref id="SL1112069" int-org-sectrefdtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1112068" slsdocid="1103280" slsdocty="int-org-section int-org-sectrefdtd">
               
               <int-org-section id="WB02048.IO.TXT.280" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="int-org_eu" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <heading>Education, Training and Culture</heading>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.118" usage="ewyb edio casee">The intergovernmental Bologna process was launched in 1999 with the aim of establishing a European Higher Education Area (EHEA), encompassing education networks and student exchanges. In March 2010 the Bologna process ministers responsible for higher education adopted the Budapest-Vienna Declaration, officially launching the EHEA. Meanwhile, in May 2009 the Council had adopted Education and Training 2020 (ET 2020), a strategic framework for European co-operation in education and training, which identified four principal objectives: to facilitate lifelong learning and mobility; to improve the quality of education and training; to promote equality, social cohesion and citizenship; and to help to develop creativity and innovation in education and training. The Brussels-based Education, Audiovisual and Culture Executive Agency (EACEA), founded in 2006, manages the Erasmus+ and the Creative Europe programmes (see below).</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.119" usage="ewyb edio casee">
          The postgraduate European University Institute (EUI) was founded in Florence, Italy, in 1972, with departments of history and civilization, economics, law, and political and social sciences. The EUI is also the depository for the historical archives of the EC institutions. An Academy of European Law was founded within the EUI in 1990, and in 1992 the Robert Schuman Centre for Advanced Studies was established to develop interdisciplinary and comparative postdoctoral research. The Jean Monnet programme, which supports institutions and activities in the field of European integration, finances the establishment of Jean Monnet Chairs at universities throughout the world; the programme targets disciplines in which EU developments are an increasingly important part of the subject studied—e.g. European law and European economic and political integration. The establishment of a network of Jean Monnet Centres of Excellence was approved in 1998; the network was extended beyond Europe in 2001. As part of Horizon Europe (see 
          <i>Research and Innovation</i>
          , the Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions programme (with a budget of €6,600m. in 2021-27) funds doctoral and post-doctoral education and training.
        </p>
                    <p>Erasmus educational exchanges were launched in 1987, to enable students throughout Europe to travel to other EU countries to study and work as part of their degree programme. From 2004 students and academics living outside the EU were able to apply for Erasmus Mundus Master Courses at EU universities. In November 2013 the European Parliament (EP) approved the Erasmus+ programme, to cover the period 2014-20. Erasmus+ merged seven previous programmes covering education, training, youth and sport, and focuses, in particular, on multilingualism, individual mobility, co-operation for innovation, and support for policy reform. Erasmus+ operates in 33 countries (the 27 EU member states, and six associated third countries: Iceland, Liechtenstein, North Macedonia, Norway, Serbia and Türkiye) and was renewed for 2021-27, with a budget of €24,574m. in current prices (plus an additional top-up of €1,700m. in 2018 prices). An educational information network, Eury­dice, which is co-ordinated by the EACEA, provides data on and analyses of European national education systems and policies. It has units in all Erasmus+ programme countries.</p>
                    <p>
          The European Training Foundation was established in Turin, Italy, in 1995; the Foundation aims (with a mandate revised in December 2008) to support developing and transition countries to develop human capital as part of the EU’s external relations policy, by, for example, reforming systems of education and training as well as the labour market. The European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training was also established in 1975, in Berlin, Germany (relocating to Thessaloníki, Greece, in 1995). The Europass programme was officially launched in February 2005 (and relaunched as part of the Skills Agenda, see 
          <i>Employment, Social Affairs and Inclusion</i>
           in July 2020), and provides online tools to help users to find and apply for job and courses throughout the EU promoting occupational mobility, as well as mobility for learning purposes. The European qualifications framework (EQF) identifies eight reference levels for qualifications, and serves as a translation tool to find equivalence between the different types of national qualification, in order further to promote mobility and lifelong learning. The EQF was formally established in 2008, and revised in 2017. Since 2012 every new qualification issued in the EU has a reference to the appropriate EQF level.
        </p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.126" usage="ewyb edio casee">
          In November 2007 the Council endorsed the first European strategy for culture policy. In November 2008 the Europeana project was launched, funded by the European Commission, with the aim of creating an online digital library to make Europe’s cultural heritage accessible to the public (www.europeana.eu). In November 2011 the European Commission proposed a new programme, Creative Europe, to supersede the Culture and MEDIA (see 
          <i>Communications, Content, Technology and the Digital Single Market</i>
          ) programmes; the programme entered into operation on 1 January 2014, with a budget of some €1,460m. for 2014-20. Creative Europe 
          
          was renewed for 2021-27, with a budget of €1,842m. in current prices.
        </p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.127" usage="ewyb edio casee">The European City of Culture initiative was launched in 1985 (and renamed the European Capital of Culture initiative in 1999). Member states nominate one or more cities, in turn, according to an agreed chronological order. The capitals of culture are then formally selected by the Council on the recommendation of the Commission, taking into account the views of a selection panel. Since 2009 there have been two or three annual capitals of culture from member states, including one from the post-May 2004 contingent, and from 2021 candidate countries, potential candidate countries and European Free Trade Association countries were also eligible to hold the title of capital of culture. The capitals of culture for 2024 are Bad Ischl (Austria), Bodø (Norway) and Tartu (Estonia), and for 2025 are Chemnitz (Germany) and Nova Gorica (Slovenia). The European Prize for Literature was launched by the European Commission in 2009. Since 2013 the European Heritage Label has been granted annually to sites of symbolic importance to European history.</p>
                    <p>
          In June 2016 the European Commission and the EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy announced a new Strategy for International Cultural Relations, which seeks to foster cultural co-operation with countries in order to promote freedom of expression, mutual understanding and respect for the EU’s fundamental values. The new strategy was adopted in line with the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and in the belief that cultural engagement can help in developing responses to international challenges, such as integrating refugees, preventing Islamist radicalization and preserving global cultural heritage. Intercultural dialogue was to be promoted, 
          <i>inter alia</i>
          , by means of co-operation between cultural institutions; cultural peacebuilding events; and exchanges of people.
        </p>
                    <p>The European Solidarity Corps (ESC) was announced in September 2016 as an initiative to offer opportunities for young adults, aged between 18 and 30 years, to take part in employment or volunteer work of benefit to communities throughout Europe. The initial phase of the initiative was launched in December, with phase 2 in 2018-20 and phase 3, with a budget of €1,010m. (at current prices), in 2021-27.</p>
                    <p>
          In November 2017 the Commission presented proposals to establish a European Education Area (EEA) by 2025, and to encourage an increased focus on EU culture. The planned EEA was to be based on: mobility for all, building on the success of initiatives such as Erasmus+ (with the aim of increasing participation levels twofold by 2025), together with the introduction from 2019 of a new EU student card to facilitate storage of and access to individuals’ academic data; the mutual recognition of academic diplomas and school leaving certificates, together with a new, so-called Sorbonne process, which would build on the Bologna process; improving language skills, with a new target for school-leavers to have a working knowledge of two languages in addition to their first language by 2025; the promotion of learning throughout life, in order to increase the proportion of people engaging in lifelong learning to a target of 25% by 2025; the introduction of a new Digital Education Action Plan, encouraging innovative, digital training; supporting teachers, through, 
          <i>inter alia</i>
          , increasing participation in EU initiatives such as Erasmus+ and the eTwinning online platform (which, since 2005, encourage collaboration and co-operation between schools throughout the Union); creating a network of universities to facilitate cross-border co-operation and competition, as well as establishing a School of European and Transnational Governance in Florence; investing in education by supporting structural reforms to develop policy, by utilizing EU funding and investment and by setting a target for member states to invest 5% of gross domestic product in education; preserving European cultural heritage and identity through the development of a New European Agenda for Culture; and increasing the European focus of Euronews, established in 1993 by European public broadcasters. As part of the New European Agenda for Culture, in November 2018 a Work Plan for Culture in 2019-22 was adopted. A Council Resolution on a new Work Plan for Culture 2023-26 was approved in November 2022, comprising four areas: empowering the cultural and creative sectors; enhancing cultural participation in society; `culture for the planet’; and enhancing cultural partnerships in EU external relations. In September 2020 the Commission published a new communication that established guidelines for achieving the EEA by the scheduled completion date of 2025.
        </p>
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-sectref>
          <int-org-sectref id="SL1112076" int-org-sectrefdtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1112075" slsdocid="1103324" slsdocty="int-org-section int-org-sectrefdtd">
               
               <int-org-section id="WB02048.IO.TXT.281" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="int-org_eu" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <heading>Employment, Social Affairs and Inclusion</heading>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.130" usage="ewyb edio casee">
          The Single European Act, which entered into force in 1987, added to the original Treaty of Rome articles that emphasized the need for economic and social cohesion in the Community, i.e. the reduction of disparities between the various regions. This was to be achieved principally through the existing structural funds—the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="WB02049.IO.TXT.24">European Regional Development Fund</xr>
          , the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="WB02049.IO.TXT.25">European Social Fund (ESF)</xr>
          , and the Guidance Section of the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund, which was replaced by the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="WB02049.IO.TXT.23.12">European Fund for Agricultural Development</xr>
           in 2007. In 1988 the Council declared that Community operations through the structural funds, the European Investment Bank and other financial instruments should have five priority objectives: promoting the development and structural adjustment of the less developed regions (where gross domestic product per head was less than 75% of the Community average); converting areas seriously affected by industrial decline; combating long-term unemployment among people above the age of 25 years; providing employment for young people (under the age of 25 years); and agricultural reform.
        </p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.131" usage="ewyb edio casee">In 1989 the Commission proposed a Charter of Fundamental Social Rights of Workers (later known as the Social Charter), covering freedom of movement, fair remuneration, improvement of working conditions, the right to social security, freedom of association and collective wage agreements, the development of participation by workers in management, and sexual equality. The Charter was approved (with some modifications) by the heads of government of all Community member states, except the UK, in December. The chapter on social affairs of the Treaty on European Union, negotiated in December 1991, was omitted to form a separate protocol (the Social Charter). A directive ensuring equal treatment for part-time employees was adopted by the Council in December 1997. A directive on parental leave, the second direct­ive to be adopted under the Social Charter, providingfor a statutory minimum of three months’ unpaid leave to allow parents to care for young children, was adopted in June 1996. The Treaty of Amsterdam, which entered into force in May 1999, removed the opt-out clause and incorporated the Social Charter in the revised Treaty of Rome (the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union).</p>
                    <p>
          The EU’s Europe 2020 initiative was adopted by the Council in June 2010; Europe 2020 sought to ensure that by 2020 at least 75% of those aged between 20 and 64 years were in employment. In April 2012, in response to high rates of unemployment, the European Commission launched a new Employment Package; in December a Youth Employment Package for 2014-20 was announced. In April 2013 the Council adopted the so-called Youth Guarantee, a programme to be partly financed by the ESF, seeking to ensure that all people under the age of 25 years had access to employment, further education or a training scheme within four months of becoming unemployed or leaving education. In June 2019 the Council adopted a directive on transparent and predictable working conditions in the EU, which introduced additional minimum rights for workers. In July 2020 the Commission presented a five-year plan, the European Skills Agenda for sustainable competitiveness, social fairness and resilience, which aimed to improve existing skills and support reskilling. The overall EU unemployment rate was 6.0% in January 2024, when the rate of unemployment in the eurozone was 6.4%
          <!--UPDATE FOR PRESS TO 2024-->
           . In June 2019 the Council and the European Parliament (EP) reached provisional agreement on a new draft directive on ensuring adequate statutory minimum wages throughout the EU; the directive was adopted in October, giving member states two years to transpose the directive into national law.
        </p>
                    <p>The European Globalization Adjustment Fund (EGF) was established in 2007 to support workers who experience dismissal as a result of business measures linked to globalization. Since 2021 the EGF supports those also affected by technological and environmental factors.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.134" usage="ewyb edio casee">The Treaty of Amsterdam authorized the European Council to take action against all types of discrimination. In June 2000 the Council adopted a directive implementing the principle of equal treatment, regardless of racial or ethnic origin in employment, education, social security, health care and access to goods and services. This was followed in November by a directive establishing a framework for equal treatment regardless of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. In June 2005 the Commission presented a framework strategy on non-discrimination and equal opportunities, aimed at ensuring the full implementation and enforcement by member states of anti-discrimination legislation. In March 2007 the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights (FRA), based in Vienna, Austria, assumed the mandate of the former European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia (EUMC) and was also tasked with developing knowledge, expertise and work programmes in respect of other fundamental rights. The Agency maintains the European Information Network on Racism and Xenophobia. The European Institute for Gender Equality was founded in 2007, and is based in Vilnius, Lithuania.</p>
                    <p>In April 2010 the Commission issued a communication in support of the social and economic integration of the Roma community in Europe (which numbers between 10m. and 12m. people, and has encountered widespread discrimination). An EU Framework for National Roma Integration Strategies, adopted in April 2011, ran until 2020, and compelled each EU member state to develop a national strategy focused on the welfare of the Roma population. In October 2020 the Commission adopted a new 10-year Roma strategic framework for equality, inclusion, education, health, employment, housing and participation.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.135" usage="ewyb edio casee">Numerous directives on health and safety in the workplace have been adopted. The Major Accident Hazards Bureau (MAHB), which was established in 1996 and is based at the Joint Research Centre in Ispra, Italy, helps to prevent and mitigate industrial accidents in the EU. The MAHB maintains a Major Accident Reporting System database and a Community Documentation Centre on Industrial Risk. The European Agency for Health and Safety at Work was established in 1995 in Bilbao, Spain. The EU Strategic Framework on Health and Safety at Work for 2021-27 was adopted in part to address new risks, including those relating to changes in working practices, technological developments and the COVID-19 pandemic.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.1959" usage="ewyb edio casee">
          In June 1993 the Working Time Directive (WTD) was approved, restricting the working week to a maximum duration of 48 hours, except where overtime arrangements are agreed with trade unions; certain categories of employee were exempt from the 48-hour rule, including those in the transport sector, those employed in offshore oil extraction, fishermen and junior hospital doctors. The WTD also prescribed minimum rest periods and a minimum of four weeks’ paid holiday a year. The Charter of Fundamental Rights (CFR) of the EU, which asserts that all EU workers are entitled to limits on working hours, became legally binding in December 2009 with the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty (see also 
          <i>Justice, Migration and Home Affairs</i>
          ). In December 2023 new rules on the employment of platform workers (e.g. whether they should be classed as employed—and thus covered by labour and social protection laws—or self-employed) were provisionally agreed by the Council and the EP
          <!--rejected by France jan 2024 for having strayed too far from original text-->
           .
        </p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.136" usage="ewyb edio casee">The European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Eurofound), which was established in Dublin, Ireland, in 1975, undertakes four-year research and development programmes in the fields of employment, sustainable development, equal opportunities, social cohesion, health and wellbeing, and partici­pation.</p>
                    <p>
          All 15 of the longer-standing members of the EU (EU-15), except the UK, Ireland and Sweden, imposed a period of restriction on immigrants from the eight formerly communist new member states (EU-8—the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Slovenia and Slovakia) following their accession to the EU in May 2004, owing to fears that their labour markets might be saturated with inexpensive labour. Workers from new member states Malta and Cyprus were allowed unrestricted freedom of movement. All EU-15 states were required to apply EU legislation on free movement and open their labour markets to the EU-8 in 2011, and EU labour markets were opened to workers from Bulgaria and Romania in January 2014. A European Commission report published in 2009 estimated that the number of EU-8 nationals residing in EU-15 countries had risen from around 900,000 before enlargement to some 1.9m. by 2007, with Ireland and the UK as their main destinations; meanwhile
          
          , the number of Bulgarian and Romanian workers resident in EU-15 states was estimated to have increased from about 700,000 to nearly 1.9m., with Italy and Spain as the principal destination countries. 
        </p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.137" usage="ewyb edio casee">European Employment Services (EURES), launched in 1994, maintains a web portal and operates as a network of specialist advisers across Europe providing information, guidance and placement to both job seekers and employers interested in the European job market. The service covers the countries of the European Economic Area and Switzerland.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.2036" usage="ewyb edio casee">An advisory Social Protection Committee was established in June 2000. In addition, the EU administers the Mutual Information System on Social Protection in the EU member states, as well as Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland. In December 2013 the Council adopted a regulation on a new programme for Employment and Social Innovation (EaSI), which sought to support measures by member states to develop and implement social reforms, and incorporated earlier programmes on employment and social solidarity and on microfinance. From 2021 EaSI became part of the successor to the ESF, the European Social Fund Plus (ESP+).</p>
                    <p>A regulation establishing a Fund for European Aid to the Most Deprived (FEAD) was adopted in 2014 as a funding instrument to contribute to the Europe 2020 poverty-reduction target. It was simplified in 2018, and amended in April 2020 and February 2021, in response to the COVID-19 crisis.</p>
                    <p>In April 2020 the Commission proposed the establishment of a new instrument for temporary Support to mitigate Unemployment Risks in an Emergency (SURE). SURE, worth up to €100,000m., was intended to help to preserve employment during the COVID-19 pandemic, specifically by making loans available to member states, on favourable terms, to help them to mitigate the increases in public spending required to protect jobs. By the end of the instrument at the end of 2022, some €98,400m. had been disbursed to a total of 19 member states.</p>
                    <p>In September 2015 Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker announced proposals for the development of a European Pillar of Social Rights. The new Pillar was formally declared in November 2017, focusing on equal opportunities and support in accessing the labour market, equitable working conditions, and social protection and inclusion, primarily in the member states of the eurozone. Alongside the Pillar, a new Social Scoreboard was established to monitor the progress made by member states in achieving various social and employment objectives. The objectives of the European Pillar of Social Rights were made a priority and incorporated into the work of the European Semester, the EU’s yearly cycle of economic governance.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.140" usage="ewyb edio casee">
          The EU’s disability strategy focuses on: co-operation between the Commission and the member states; the full participation of people with disabilities; and ensuring disability issues are fully recognized in policy formulation (particularly with regard to employment). Under the EU Disability Strategy 2010-20, the Commission aimed to improve accessibility to goods and services for people with disabilities; to help disabled people to exercise their right to vote; to promote the European Platform Against Poverty
          
          ; to ensure that the ESF offered ongoing support to disability-related projects; to carry out data collection with the aim of improving opportunities for the employment of disabled people; to ensure inclusive education; to facilitate the mutual recognition of disability cards and related entitlements throughout Europe; and to promote the rights of people with disabilities through the EU’s external activities. The European Accessibility Act, which aims to improve the functionality of the internal market with respect to the provision of accessible goods and services, became law in 2019. In March 2021 the Commission published a new Strategy for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 2021-30, in an effort to ensure that disabled people were able to participate fully and on an equal basis with non-disabled people throughout society; the European Accessibility Resource Centre (AccessibleEU) is a major initiative of the new strategy.
        </p>
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-sectref>
          <int-org-sectref id="SL1112080" int-org-sectrefdtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1112079" slsdocid="1103327" slsdocty="int-org-section int-org-sectrefdtd">
               
               <int-org-section id="WB02048.IO.TXT.282" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="int-org_eu" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <heading>Health, Food Safety and Consumer Protection</heading>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.148" usage="ewyb edio">The EU is committed to ensuring that health protection is incorporated into its policies, and to working to improve public health, prevent illness and remove dangers to both physical and mental health. In response to the challenges presented by the COVID-19 pandemic from early 2020, the EU agreed a new health programme for 2021-27. EU4Health was launched in March 2021 with funding of €2,446m. (in current prices); it aims to provide funds to EU member states, health organizations and non-governmental organizations in order to invest in preventative measures, crisis preparedness, the acquisition of essential medicines and medical supplies, and efforts to improve long-term health. Two major projects were launched under EU4Health in February 2024, with funding of €126m., the first on antimicrobial resistance and the second on the prevention of cancer and other non-communicable diseases.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.149" usage="ewyb edio casee">An Early Warning and Response System to help member states to deal with outbreaks of disease was in place by the end of 2000. A European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) became operational in May 2005, in Stockholm, Sweden, which enables the EU to share its disease control expertise more effectively and allows multinational investigation teams to be drawn up effectively. The first European conference on vaccination and immunization, Eurovaccine 2009, was organized and funded by the ECDC, and convened in Sweden in December 2009. Meanwhile, in 2006-08 the EU member states, and Iceland and Norway, began to implement the Vaccine European New Integrated Collaboration Effort (VENICE) project, which aimed to broaden knowledge and best practice on vaccination.</p>
                    <p>In response to the COVID-19 outbreak, from late January 2020 the EU’s integrated political crisis response mechanism (IPCR) was activated, in order to ensure information was shared between countries. In June the Commission launched a new European vaccine strategy for the development, manufacture and distribution of vaccines to protect against COVID-19. The Commission utilized emergency funds to seek vaccine supplies for EU member states through advance purchase agreements with prospective vaccine manufacturers. Vaccination against COVID-19 began throughout the EU in late December. Under the terms of a new temporary transparency and authorization mechanism, between 30 January and 30 June 2021 pharmaceuticals suppliers based in EU member states were required to request authorization before exporting either COVID-19 vaccines or their active ingredients (excluding arrangements under the COVAX facility—a global initiative that aimed to provide fair and equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines for those in low and middle-income countries). By the end of 2021 five vaccines had been approved by the EU’s medical regulator.</p>
                    <p>In November 2020 the Commission initiated measures towards the creation of new European Health Union. The Commission proposed bolstering the EU’s health security framework and adopting a new regulation on serious cross-border threats to health. The improved health security framework would improve readiness at both the EU and national levels to deal with new threats to health, to improve data reporting on indicators relating to health systems (for example, information about the availability of hospital beds or about intensive care capacity), and to strengthen health surveillance, with the use of advanced technologies. Moreover, the mandates of both the ECDC and the European Medicines Agency were to be strengthened to enable them to provide increased support to both the Commission and to member states. A Health Emergency Preparedness and Response Authority (HERA) was established in 2021.</p>
                    <p usage="ewyb edio casee">
          A European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction was established in Lisbon, Portugal, in 1995. In July 2005 an EU directive came into effect that prohibited tobacco advertising with a cross-border dimension via print media, radio and the internet, as well as the sponsorship by tobacco companies of cross-border cultural and sporting events. Tobacco advertising on television had already been banned in the EU in the early 1990s. In June 2009 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council recommendation on the introduction of national legislation to protect citizens from exposure to tobacco smoke. A Tobacco Products Directive, which was applied from May 2016, prohibited, 
          <i>inter alia</i>
          , the use of tobacco products with a so-called characterizing flavour (such as menthol), provided for mandatory, larger pictorial health warnings on packaging, prohibited packets of fewer than 20 cigarettes and introduced measures to regulate e-cigarettes.
        </p>
                    <p usage="ewyb edio casee">The Food Supplements Directive, which was approved in 2002 and was designed to strengthen controls on the sale of natural remedies, vitamin supplements and mineral plant extracts, came into effect in August 2005. A Falsified Medicines Directive came into force in January 2013, which improved the safety of medicines through measures to ensure their authenticity and the quality of their ingredients.</p>
                    <p>Since January 2006 EU member states have issued European Health Insurance Cards, which entitle residents to receive state-provided medical treatment while visiting states within the EU, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland and the UK.</p>
                    <!--https://www.gov.uk/guidance/healthcare-for-eu-and-efta-citizens-visiting-the-uk-->
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.145" usage="ewyb edio">The European Food Safety Authority provides the Commission with scientific advice on food safety, and has been based in Parma, Italy, since June 2005. In July 1998 an Institute for Health and Consumer Protection, attached to the Commission’s Joint Research Centre, was established. The Commission’s Directorate-General for Health and Food Safety (DG SANTE) aims to improve and protect health, and to help modernize EU health systems; to ensure the safety of food, animal feed and pharmaceutical products throughout the EU, while ensuring an effective and fair internal market for those products; to help to disseminate EU standards worldwide; and to protect the health and welfare of both animals and plants.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.146" usage="ewyb edio">In July 2001 the Commission developed rules on the labelling and tracing of genetically modified organisms (GMOs). A proposal by the Commission in mid-2010, to introduce voluntary national cultivation bans for GMOs, was approved by the Council in June 2014, formally permitting EU countries to opt out from the EU’s GMO crop approval system. By October 2015 19 EU countries had reportedly expressed a preference not to cultivate genetically modified crops within all or some part of their territory.</p>
                    <p>
          It emerged in early 2013 that unregulated horsemeat had been used in processed meat products widely supplied throughout Europe. In March the European Commissioner, responsible for Health Policy, announced a five-point plan which identified actions to be implemented over the short, medium and longer term in order to rectify shortcomings in the EU’s food supply chain. In May the Commission proposed new legislation to update and strengthen the agri-food chain, in an effort to improve food safety. In July the EU Food Fraud Network (FFN) was launched, comprising contact points in each of the EU member states, as well as Iceland, Norway and Switzerland
          
          , to provide cross-border administrative support and co-operation on issues pertaining to financially motivated violations of legislation on food. In December 2014 new EU food labelling rules came into force, which sought to ensure that consumers received comprehensive and accurate information about the origin and content of food products, and to make clear the presence of potential allergens. Legislation compelling manufacturers to present clear nutritional information came into effect in December 2016.
        </p>
                    <p>A Community Register of Feed Additives (now European Union Register of Feed Additives) was published in November 2005, in accordance with a regulation on additives for use in animal nutrition. A regulation requiring that all health claims on food, drinks or food supplements be substantiated by independent experts was adopted in December 2006. In June 2017 the European Commission adopted an action plan to address the problems posed by increased antimicrobial resistance, which was understood to be causing annually more than 33,000 human fatalities in the EU. In February 2016 the European Parliament (EP) adopted legislation limiting antibiotic use in agriculture to the treatment of sick livestock and to the prevention of the spread of infection.</p>
                    <p-alternates default="EDIO" type="ALTERNATES">
                         <p usage="edio">The first case of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), a transmissible disease that causes the brain tissue to degenerate, was diagnosed in cattle in the UK in 1986. The use of meat and bone meal in animal feed was identified as a possible cause of the emergence of the disease and was banned throughout the EU from 1994 for ruminants and in December 2000 for all animals. The possible link between BSE and new variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD), a degenerative brain disease affecting humans, resulted in a complete ban on the use for any purpose of `specified risk materials’ (i.e. those parts and organs most likely to carry the BSE prion disease agent) from cattle, sheep and goats from January 1999. A regulation on transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs) came into force in July 2001, replacing previous emergency legislation and clarifying rules for the prevention, control and eradication of TSEs. Each year the Commission approves programmes aimed at monitoring, controlling and eradicating animal diseases, with a special focus on those transmissible from animal carriers to humans.</p>
                         <p usage="ewyb">A regulation on transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs) came into force in July 2001, replacing previous emergency legislation and clarifying rules for the prevention, control and eradication of TSEs. Each year the Commission approves programmes aimed at monitoring, controlling and eradicating animal diseases, with a special focus on those transmissible from animal carriers to humans.</p>
                    </p-alternates>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.25" usage="ewyb edio">The EU’s Food and Veterinary Office was established in April 1997 to ensure that the laws on food safety, animal health and welfare, and plant health are applied in all member states. Legislation establishing the European Food Safety Authority was signed in January 2002; the body provides independent scientific advice and support on matters with a direct or indirect impact on food safety. It has no regulatory or judicial power, but co-operates closely with similar bodies in the member states.</p>
                    <p>In November 2002 agreement was reached to ban the sale, import and export of virtually all cosmetic products tested after 11 March 2009 on animals in the EU, and to halt from 11 March 2013 all animal testing for cosmetics.</p>
                    <p>Consumer protection is one of the stated priorities of EU policy, and has been implemented via a series of action programmes covering areas such as safety of products and services (e.g. food additives, safety of toys, packaging and labelling of goods), protecting consumers’ economic and legal interests, and promoting consumer representation. A number of measures have been taken to strengthen consumers’ rights, by promoting consumer associations and drawing up a requirement for fair commercial practices.</p>
                    <p>In January 2005 a European Consumer Centres Network (ECC-Net) was established to provide a single point of contact in each member state for consumers to obtain information about their rights and assistance in pursuing complaints, particularly in cases concerning cross-border purchases. In October 2013 the Commission published guidelines for businesses concerning new rules on value-added tax (VAT) for telecommunications and e-services, which came into force in January 2015. Under the new legislation, VAT is charged based on the location of customer, rather than the service provider, as part of efforts to reduce complications relating to cross-border taxation and administration for businesses operating in the single market.</p>
                    <p>In February 2005 the EP approved a new directive to harmonize the framework across the EU for banning unfair commercial practices. The new legislation, which clarified consumers’ rights, banned pressure selling and misleading marketing and facilitated cross-border trade, took effect in December 2007.</p>
                    <p>The Consumer Protection Co-operation Network, comprising public authorities responsible for enforcing legislation to protect the interests of consumers in the event of cross-border disputes, was officially launched in February 2007. In July 2009 the European Commission published a blueprint for a proposed standardized EU-wide method for classifying and reporting consumer complaints. In November 2011 the Commission adopted a directive on Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR), which sought to ensure that all contractual disputes between consumers and providers could be resolved without recourse to the courts. The ADR directive was adopted by the Council in April 2013, for implementation throughout the EU by 2015. A new online dispute resolution platform became active in January 2016, to help both consumers and businesses to settle disputes concerning the online purchase of goods from other EU member countries.</p>
                    <p>In December 2009 the European Commission adopted a new set of Rapid Alert System for Non-Food Consumer Products (known as RAPEX) guidelines. The RAPEX system was inaugurated in 2004 to facilitate the exchange of information between member states of measures taken to restrict or prevent the marketing or use of products deemed to pose a risk to the health and safety of consumers, professionals and public interests. In November 2018 the RAPEX system was updated, and its name was changed to Safety Gate. The Commission publishes a weekly report on recent Safety Gate notifications.</p>
                    <p>Proposals for a new European Consumer Agenda from 2014 were adopted in May 2012. The programme sought to increase the safety of products through market surveillance; improve the information provided to consumers, including awareness of their rights; consolidate consumer rights and strengthen redress, in particular, by means of alternative dispute resolution; and strengthen consumer rights in a number of principal sectors, including telecommunications, the digital sector, energy, transport, food and banking. From December 2018 new legislation came into effect to prevent so-called `geoblocking’ and thereby prevent discrimination against consumers from different countries in terms of access to online goods and services.</p>
                    <p>On 13 November 2020 the Commission adopted a New Consumer Agenda, which provided an updated strategic framework for consumer policy. It was intended to help the EU to deal with new issues relating to consumers and consumer rights introduced by developments in environmental and digital policy, the COVID-19 pandemic and plans for the economic recovery following the COVID-19 crisis.</p>
                    <p>
          In 2021-27 the EU’s new Single Market Programme (see 
          <i>Internal Market, Industry, Entrepreneurship and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises</i>
          ) was to finance activities relating to consumer protection and to the protection and sustainability of the food supply chain, required in order to ensure the efficient operation of the Single Market. In December 2020 the Commission proposed a new Digital Services Act and a Digital Markets Act, which aimed to protect consumers, and their rights, online (see 
          <i>Communications, Content, Technology and the Digital Single Market</i>
          ).
        </p>
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-sectref>
          <int-org-sectref id="SL1112092" int-org-sectrefdtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1112091" slsdocid="1103334" slsdocty="int-org-section int-org-sectrefdtd">
               
               <int-org-section id="WB02048.IO.TXT.284" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="int-org_eu" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <heading>Security and Defence</heading>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.162" usage="ewyb edio casee">Under the Single European Act, which came into force on 1 July 1987 (amending the Treaty of Rome, now the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union), it was formally stipu­lated that member states should inform and consult each other on foreign policy matters (as was already, in practice, often the case). In June 1992 the Petersberg Declaration of Western European Union (WEU) defined the role of WEU as the defence component of the EU and outlined the `Petersberg tasks’ relating to crisis management, including hu­man­itarian, peacekeeping and peacemaking operations, which could be carried out under WEU authority (now EU authority). In 1992 France and Germany established a joint force, Eurocorps, based in Strasbourg, France, which was later joined by Belgium, Spain and Luxembourg. An agreement signed in January 1993 specified that Eurocorps troops could serve under the command of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), thus relieving any concerns that the Eurocorps would undermine NATO’s role in Europe. The Maastricht Treaty on European Union, which came into force on 1 November, provided for joint action by member governments in matters of common foreign and security policy (CFSP), and envisaged the formation of a European security and defence policy (ESDP), with the possibility of a common defence force, although existing commitments to NATO were to be honoured. In May 1995 WEU ratified the decision by Spain, France, Italy and Portugal to establish land and sea forces, the European Operational Rapid Force and the European Maritime Force, respectively, which were also to undertake the Petersberg tasks under the auspices of WEU. At an EU summit in Cologne, Germany, in June 1999, EU member states accepted a proposal for the Eurocorps to be placed at the disposal of the EU for crisis response operations. In 2002 the Eurocorps was transformed into a rapid reaction corps. Six countries are Eurocorps member states: Belgium, France, Germany, Luxembourg, Poland and Spain. There are five associated states: Austria, Greece, Italy, Romania and Türkiye (known as Turkey until mid-2022).</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.164" usage="ewyb edio casee">The Treaty of Amsterdam, which entered into force in May 1999, aimed to strengthen the concept of a CFSP within the Union and incorporated a process of common strategies to co-ordinate external relations with a third party. The so-called Petersberg tasks were absorbed into Article 17 of the Treaty on European Union by means of the Treaty of Amsterdam. The Treaty introduced the role of High Representative for the CFSP. In June the European Council determined to strengthen the ESDP, stating that the EU needed a capacity for autonomous action, without prejudice to actions by NATO and acknowledging the supreme prerogatives of the UN Security Council. In December, following consultation with NATO, the European Council adopted the European Defence Initiative, which stated that by 2003 the EU should be able to deploy a rapid reaction force within 60 days and for a period of up to one year; the force was to comprise up to 60,000 national troops from member states. The establishment of three permanent military institutions was proposed: a Political and Security Committee (PSC); a Military Committee; and a Military Staff. The PSC, which was fully established by 2001, monitors the international situation, helps to define policies and assess their implementation, encourages dialogue and, under the auspices of the Council, takes responsibility for the political direction of capability development. In the event of a crisis situation, it oversees the strategic direction of any military response, proposes political objectives and supervises their enactment. The Military Committee gives military advice to the PSC, and comprises the chiefs of defence of member states, represented by military delegates. It serves as a forum for military consultation and co-operation and deals with risk assessment, the development of crisis management and military relations with non-EU European NATO members, accession countries and NATO. Meanwhile, the Military Staff, comprising experts seconded by the member states, provides the EU with an early warning capability, is responsible for strategic planning and implements the Military Committee’s policies. Permanent arrangements have been agreed for EU-NATO consultation and co-operation in this area. The crisis management responsibilities of WEU were transferred to the EU by July 2001.</p>
                    <p>The Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP), as the ESDP was renamed, remained an integral part of the CFSP under the Treaty of Lisbon, which entered into force in December 2009, becoming the new legal basis for the CFSP. A mutual defence clause and a solidarity clause (in the event of a member state becoming the victim of a terrorist attack or natural or manmade disaster) were included, and joint disarmament operations, military advice and assistance, conflict prevention and post-conflict stabilization were added to the Petersberg tasks. The Lisbon Treaty introduced the office of High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and provided for the establishment of the European External Action Service. Most decisions on the CFSP continued to be adopted at intergovernmental level and by consensus of all member states. With the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon, all functions of WEU were incorporated into the EU, and WEU ceased to function in 2011.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.165" usage="ewyb edio casee">In June 2004 the European Council approved the creation of a European Defence Agency (EDA), which commenced operations later that year. The EDA took responsibility for improving the EU’s defence capabilities in relation to crisis management and for promoting co-operation on research and procurement, strengthening the defence industrial and technological base and developing a competitive European defence equipment market.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.168" usage="ewyb edio casee">In June 2000 the EU established a civilian crisis management committee, and in February 2001 a regulation was adopted that created a rapid reaction mechanism (RRM) to improve the EU’s civilian crisis response capacity. In March 2014 an Instrument contributing to Stability and Peace (IcSP), with a focus on initiatives contributing to stability in partner countries, was adopted (superseding an Instrument for Stability established in 2006). The European External Action Service (EEAS) was created under the Lisbon Treaty, and its Crisis Response and Operational Coordination Department has responsibility for activating the Service’s Crisis Response System (comprising a crisis platform, EU situation room and crisis management board).</p>
                    <p usage="edio casee">In November 2004 EU ministers responsible for defence agreed to create several Battlegroups (BGs) for eventual deployment to crisis areas. BGs were to comprise up to 1,500 troops and were to be capable of deployment within 10 days of a unanimous decision from EU member states and the creation of a battle plan, and would be equipped to stay in an area for up to four months. Each group was to be commanded by a `lead nation’ and associated with a force headquarters. The BGs reached initial operational capacity in January 2005, so that at least one was on standby every six months. In January 2007 the BGs reached full operational capacity, meaning that two BG operations could be undertaken concurrently; however, no BG deployments have taken place.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.169" usage="ewyb edio casee">Under the European code of conduct on arms exports, the EU publishes an annual report on defence exports based on confidential information provided by each member state. EU member states must withhold export licences to countries where it is deemed that arms sales might lead to political repression or external aggression. The EU funds projects aimed at the collection and destruction of weapons in countries emerging from conflict. The EU is committed to nuclear non-proliferation.</p>
                    <p usage="casee">In September 2004 five European ministers responsible for defence signed an agreement in Noordwijk, Netherlands, to establish a police force, which could be deployed internationally for post-conflict peacekeeping duties and maintaining public order. The European Gendarmerie Force, which was officially inaugurated at its headquarters in Vicenza, Italy, in January 2006, was capable of deploying a mission of up to 800 gendarmes within 30 days, which could be reinforced.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.2039" usage="edio casee">In September 2001, following terrorist attacks in the USA, the Justice and Home Affairs Council decided that, for the perpetrators of terrorist attacks (as commonly defined), as well as those involved in other serious crimes (including trafficking and money laundering), the process of extradition would be replaced by a procedure for handover based on a European arrest warrant. The member states reached agreement on the arrest warrant in December; under the agreement, covering 32 serious offences, EU countries may not refuse to extradite their own nationals. The European arrest warrant had been implemented in all member states by 2005. The Council also determined to accelerate the implementation of the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters and to establish a joint investigation team. Member states were encouraged to ratify the convention on combating the financing of terrorism and to exercise greater rigour in the issuing of travel documents.</p>
                    <p>The heads of the security and intelligence services of member states met in October 2001, to discuss the co-ordinated action to be taken to curb terrorism. In December EUROPOL signed a co-operation agreement on the exchange of strategic information (excluding personal data) with the USA; in December 2002 the agreement was extended to include the exchange of personal data. Terrorist bombings in Madrid, Spain, in March 2004 gave impetus to EU initiatives aimed at improving travel document security and impeding the cross-border movements of terrorists. Following the attacks, the EU created the position of Counter-terrorist Co-ordinator, to enhance intelligence sharing among EU members and to promote the implementation of agreed EU anti-terrorism measures. The Justice and Home Affairs Council held an extraordinary meeting following terrorist attacks in London, UK, in July 2005, at which ministers pledged to accelerate the adoption and implementation of enhanced counter-terrorism measures. In December the Council adopted a new EU counter-terrorism strategy. A specific strategy for combating radical Islamism and the recruitment of terrorists was approved at the same time. A directive on the retention of telecommunications data for up to two years for use in anti-terrorism investigations was approved by the European Parliament (EP) later in December.</p>
                    <p>Terrorist attacks in Paris, France, in January 2015 focused attention on EU-wide security and counter-terrorism strategies. Fatal attacks in Copenhagen, Denmark, in the following month increased concerns about radicalization and the issue of EU-born Islamists returning to EU member states after fighting with militant groups such as the extremist Islamic State (IS, formerly known as Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant). In December 2014 Federica Mogherini, Commission Vice-President and High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, attended the first meeting of the Global Coalition to Counter the IS, which was held in Brussels. In April 2015 the European Commission adopted a European Agenda on Security (EAS) for 2015-20, in an effort to facilitate increased co-operation between EU member states in combating terrorism, organized crime and cyber crime. In November 2015 further attacks linked to IS took place in Paris, killing some 130 people. In December the Commission adopted a number of proposals to strengthen the EU’s capabilities in combating terrorism and arms trafficking. The proposals comprised two principal elements: a Directive on Terrorism, to strengthen the EU’s ability to prevent terrorist attacks by criminalizing so-called preparatory acts, such as travel overseas for the purposes of terrorism; and an Action Plan to tighten controls on the illegal possession, purchase and import of weapons into the EU. Further terrorist attacks linked to supporters of IS took place in several European cities from 2016.</p>
                    <p>
          In June 2016 Mogherini presented a new Global Strategy for the EU’s foreign and security policy, and an EU Global Strategy Implementation Plan on Security and Defence was presented to member state ministers responsible for foreign affairs and defence in November. The ministers agreed on enhanced co-operation in security and defence, focusing on three key areas: enabling the EU to respond to conflict and crises by accelerating the implementation and efficacy of both civilian and military operations; strengthening the response of partner countries, including through the provision of training programmes; and strengthening the EU’s internal capacity to protect its citizens while tackling the root cause of threats to security, by combating, for example, terrorism, and the trafficking of both people and drugs. In November the Commission proposed a new European Defence Action Plan (EDAP) providing, 
          <i>inter alia</i>
          , for the establishment of a European Defence Fund to facilitate investment in the research and development of collaborative defence projects; the European Defence Fund was launched in June 2017, with an annual budget of €5,500m. In December the Council of the EU and ministers responsible for foreign affairs of NATO countries adopted a common set of proposals for increased EU-NATO co-operation. This followed the signature of a joint declaration by EU leaders and the NATO Secretary-General in July, which had identified seven areas of co-operation: responding to hybrid threats; co-operation in operational matters, including marine and migration issues; cyber security; defence capability; defence industry and research; joint exercises; and capacity building.
        </p>
                    <p>
          At a summit meeting in Bratislava, Slovakia, in September 2016, EU leaders agreed to deepen co-operation in security and defence. In December the European Council adopted conclusions endorsing an implementation plan for the development of security and defence policy, building on the EU’s Global Strategy. The European Council also supported the Commission’s proposal for the EDAP; and urged a rapid expansion in EU-NATO co-operation. The implementation plan identified three priorities: the response to external conflict and crises; the development of the capabilities of EU partners; and the protection of EU citizens. These objectives were to be achieved by, 
          <i>inter alia</i>
          , establishing a co-ordinated annual review on defence (CARD) to improve the transparency of EU defence capabilities, and to monitor defence spending, investment and research; developing a permanent structured co-operation (PESCO), as provided for by the Treaty of Lisbon, to strengthen European security and defence; establishing military planning and conduct capability (MPCC) to improve crisis management; and strengthening the EU’s rapid response tools. In June 2017 EU leaders agreed to launch the PESCO, and in mid-December the Council adopted a decision on its establishment. All EU member states have committed themselves to taking part in the PESCO, with the exception of Malta (Denmark was confirmed as a PESCO participating country in May 2023, after voters in the country ended its opt-out on EU defence co-operation in a referendum in 2022). In November 2020 the Council approved guidance for the second initial phase of PESCO, for implementation during 2021-25.
        </p>
                    <p>In July 2020 the Commission proposed a new EU Security Union Strategy for 2020-25. Actions were to apply in three principal areas: combating organized crime and human trafficking; introducing a new counter-terrorism agenda, together with efforts to prevent radicalization; and countering cybercrime, including the sexual abuse of children. The new strategy superseded the EAS for 2015-20.</p>
                    <p>
          In March 2021 EU ministers of foreign affairs agreed to establish a new, extra-budgetary European Peace Facility (EPF), which was intended to improve the EU’s ability to prevent conflict and strengthen international security by providing a single instrument to finance operational decisions relating to military and defence under the CFSP. It replaced and expanded on two former financial instruments, the Athena Mechanism and the African Peace Facility. The EPF enables the EU both to train and equip its partners with military supplies in order to increase their defence capabilities, and was worth €5,000m. in 2018 prices during 2021-27 (the EPF’s financial ceiling was increased to some €17,000m., in current prices, in 2024)
          <!--https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2023/06/26/european-peace-facility-council-agrees-on-second-top-up-of-the-overall-financial-ceiling-by-3-5-billion/-->
                         <!--https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/infographics/european-peace-facility/-->
           . In late February 2022 the EU announced that it was to provide funds of some €450m. to Ukraine under the EPF, following its large-scale military invasion by the Russian Federation; the EU subsequently pledged significant additional funding and in March 2024 established a Ukraine Assistance Fund within the EPF, ringfencing €5,000m. for Ukraine (in current prices)
          
          .
        </p>
                    <!--https://epthinktank.eu/2022/11/18/european-peace-facility-ukraine-and-beyond/#:~:text=EPF%20military%20assistance%20for%20Ukraine%20to%20date&text=Its%20financial%20ceiling%20is%20%E2%82%AC,%E2%82%AC1.132%20billion%20in%202027.-->
                    <p>In March 2022 the EU adopted a new Strategic Compass to strengthen EU defence and security policy by 2030, enabling member states to respond more rapidly to crises; provide security for citizens, amid fast-changing threats; invest in military capabilities and technologies; and co-operate with other EU members to achieve common objectives. In July the Commission adopted a proposal to reinforce European defence capabilities by facilitating common procurement in 2022-24, through the establishment of a short-term EU instrument with funding of some €500m. to address `the most urgent and critical needs’ for defence products, following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.</p>
                    <p>
          A Commission-High Representative joint communication on an enhanced EU Maritime Security Strategy (EUMSS) was adopted in March 2023, with the aim of ensuring maritime peace and security, including, 
          <i>inter alia, </i>
          the organization of naval exercises at EU level; increased EU-NATO co-operation; and the reinforcement of surveillance by coastal patrol vessels. A revised strategy was approved by the Council in October.
        </p>
                    <p>
          Provisional agreement between the EP and the Council was reached in July 2023 on an act to boost ammunition and missile production in the EU, the Act in Support of Ammunition Production, with funding of €500m. over two years. In October a new instrument was adopted by the Council on the reinforcement of the European defence industry through common procurement (EDIRPA), whereby funds from the EU budget could be used partially to reimburse member states, where three or more member states were involved in a consortium for joint defence purchases
          <!--https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/policies/defence-security/defence-security-timeline/-->
           . The Commission and the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, in co-ordination with the European Defence Agency, put forward the first European Defence Industrial Strategy in March 2024, a long-term plan to support the readiness and competitiveness of the European defence industry.
        </p>
                    <p usage="edio casee">In October 2012 the EU was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, in acknowledgement of its contribution to `the advancement of peace and reconciliation, democracy and human rights in Europe’ after the two World Wars of the 20th century.</p>
                    <p usage="casee ewyb edio">The EU has established a number of military operations in third countries.</p>
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-sectref>
          <int-org-sectref id="SL1112097" int-org-sectrefdtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1112096" slsdocid="1103340" slsdocty="int-org-section int-org-sectrefdtd">
               
               <int-org-section id="WB02048.IO.TXT.285" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="int-org_eu" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <heading>Financial Services and Capital Movements</heading>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.170" usage="ewyb edio casee">Freedom of capital movements and the creation of a uniform financial area were regarded as vital for the completion of the EU’s internal market by 1992. A second banking directive (the first was adopted in 1977), which entered into force on 1 January 1993, aimed to create a single community licence for banking, permitting a bank established in one member country to open branches in another. Other measures were adopted, with the aim of ensuring the capital adequacy of credit institutions and the prevention of money laundering. In 1987 a Council directive came into force which required member states to remove restrictions on: long-term credits related to commercial trans­actions; acquisition of securities; and the admission of securities to capital markets. In June 1988 the Council approved a directive removing all restrictions on capital movements by 1 July 1990. A number of countries were per­mitted to exercise restrictions until the end of 1992, and further extensions were granted to Portugal and Greece. With the entry into force of the Maastricht Treaty in November 1993, the principle of full freedom of capital movements was incorporated into the structure of the EU.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.171" usage="ewyb edio casee">The EU worked to develop a single market in financial services throughout the 1990s. A Financial Services Action Plan (FSAP) was published in May 1999, with three strategic objectives: to establish a single market in wholesale financial services; to make retail markets open and secure; and to strengthen the rules on prudential supervision in order to keep pace with new sources of financial risk. An overall banking directive was adopted in March 2000. Non-bank institutions became eligible for a `European passport’ on compliance with the principles of the EU’s first banking directive on the mutual recognition of licences, prudential super­vision and supervision by the home member state. A directive on the reorganization and closure of failed credit institutions with branches in more than one member state entered into force in May 2004. During 2002 a directive was drawn up on the supplementary supervision of financial conglomerates. Individual targets specified in the FSAP included removing outstanding barriers to raising capital within the EU; creating a coherent legal framework for supplementary pension funds; and providing greater legal certainty in cross-border securities trading. A directive establishing harmonized rules on the cross-border distance-selling of financial services was adopted in June 2002. In November 2003 the Commission adopted a package of measures to establish a new organizational architecture in all financial services sectors.</p>
                    <p usage="ewyb edio casee">Two proposed directives were issued in November 2000, relating to interest and royalties and concerning the code of conduct for business taxation. Together with the savings tax directive, these were known as the EU tax package, the terms of which were agreed by EU ministers of finance in June 2003. The package consisted of a political code of conduct to eliminate harmful business tax regimes; a legislative measure to ensure an effective minimum level of taxation of savings income; and a legislative measure to eliminate source taxes on cross-border payments of interest and royalties between associated companies. A savings tax directive, which entered into force on 1 July 2005, aimed to prevent EU citizens from avoiding taxes on savings by keeping their money in foreign bank accounts. Transitional measures applied to Austria, Belgium and Luxembourg. Negotiations were concluded with Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Monaco, Andorra and San Marino to ensure the adoption there of equivalent measures to allow effective taxation of savings income paid to EU residents.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.183" usage="ewyb edio casee">In May 1993 ministers adopted a directive on investment services, which (with effect from 1 January 1996) allowed credit institutions to offer investment services in any member state, on the basis of a licence held in one state. A Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFiD), which entered into force in November 2007, allowed investment firms to operate throughout the EU on the basis of authorization in their home member state, and ensured that investors benefited from a high level of protection when employing such firms, regardless of their location in the EU. In June 2014 the European Commission adopted proposals for MiFiD II, comprising a revised directive, and a new regulation, with the aim of further protecting investors, and to take into account the evolution of new methods of trading. MiFiD II, originally envisaged for implementation in 2017, was applicable throughout the EU from January 2018.</p>
                    <p>The Capital Requirements Directive (CRD), which was adopted in June 2006, provided for the introduction of a supervisory framework on capital measurement and capital standards in accordance with the Basel II rules agreed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. In September 2009 a revised CRD was adopted by the European Parliament (EP) and the Council, amending the rules on bank capital requirements. This aimed to foster improved risk management among financial institutions, strengthened the regulatory framework in areas relevant to the causes of the financial and economic crisis in the eurozone, and had to be transposed into national law by the end of October 2010. Meanwhile, in June 2009 the European Council had recommended the establishment of a so-called single rulebook to apply to all financial institutions in the single market. In December 2010 the Basel Committee put forward new regulatory standards on the adequacy and liquidity of bank capital, which were collectively known as Basel III. The CRD was divided into two legislative instruments: a directive governing access to deposit-taking activities, and a regulation establishing the requirements to be adhered to by institutions (together known as CRD IV). Basel III entered into force in mid-July 2013.</p>
                    <p>In September 2003 the occupational pensions directive (IORP directive), designed to allow workers of multinational companies to access cross-border employer pension schemes, became EU law. In July 2007 the Commission proposed a reform of EU insurance legislation, to improve consumer protection and supervision, deepen market integration and increase international competitiveness. The new system, known as Solvency I, introduced more extensive solvency requirements for insurers, in order to guarantee sufficient capital to withstand adverse events, covering not only traditional insurance risks, but also economic risks, including market risk (such as a decline in the value of an insurer’s investments), credit risk (for example when debt obligations are not met) and operational risk (such as malpractice or system failure). Solvency II (replacing 14 existing directives), was adopted in May 2009, and the new system entered into force in January 2016. The provisions of a revised occupational pensions directive, IORP II, had to be incorporated into national law by January 2019. The European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Committee works to improve co-operation with national supervisory authorities.</p>
                    <p>A Payment Services Directive (PSD), adopted in November 2007, provided the legal framework for the creation of the Single Euro Payments Area, an initiative designed to make all electronic payments across the EU and EEA as straightforward and secure as domestic payments within individual member states. From April 2011 the Electronic Money (e-money) Directive was applied, with the aim of regulating the business and supervision of relevant financial institutions to support the evolution of the single market for digital e-money services throughout the EU, while maintaining consistency with the PSD. In October 2015 a new directive on payment services, known as PSD2, was adopted, repealing the first PSD with effect from January 2018; PSD2 sought to increase security, benefit consumers and take into account developments in innovation.</p>
                    <p>
          In September 2009 the Commission adopted proposals for the creation of a European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB), which was to monitor and assess risks to the stability of the financial system as a whole; and a European System of Financial Supervisors (ESFS), with the capacity to address recommendations and warnings issued to member states and to the European supervisory authorities. The ESFS comprised three European Supervisory Authorities (ESAs): a Euro­pean Banking Authority; a European Securities and Markets Authority; and a European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority, to help rebuild confidence, unify financial rules, resolve problems involving cross-border firms, and prevent the accumulation of risks that could undermine the stability of the financial system. In September 2010 the EP endorsed the new supervisory framework, which was confirmed by ministers responsible for the economy and for finance (the ECOFIN Council) in November. The three ESAs and the ESRB were established in January 2011 to replace the supervisory committees hitherto in place. In December 2012 EU ministers responsible for finance approved plans to deepen and safeguard economic stability through the creation of a banking union (see 
          <i>Economic Co-operation</i>
          ). A Bank Resolution and Recovery Directive (BRRD) was adopted, introducing harmonized procedures for the management of insolvent financial institutions. Member states were required to implement the Directive by the end of 2014 (however, 11 states failed to do so).
        </p>
                    <p>In September 2011 the President of the Commission announced proposals to introduce a new, EU-wide financial transaction tax (FTT), which would apply to transactions between financial institutions, at a rate of 0.1% on equity and debt transactions, and 0.01% on derivatives transactions. Two-thirds of revenue from the FTT was to be directed to the EU budget, thereby reducing the contributions of member states based on gross national income, while the remaining one-third would be retained by individual member states. However, there was not unanimous support for the FTT, and although in late 2012 the Commission proposed that the principle of `enhanced co-operation’ should be utilized (a procedure permitting a minimum of nine member states to introduce ameliorated co-operation in certain areas) so that the tax could be introduced in the 11 states in favour, FTT has not yet come into force.</p>
                    <p>
          In March 2013 the Council and the EP approved legislation restricting bonus payments payable to those working in the banking sector to no more than the sum of an employee’s total annual salary from 2014; the one-to-one ratio could be increased twofold, dependent on the approval of a majority of shareholders. The 
          
          EP also voted in favour of the imposition of an upper limit on bonus payments to fund managers. The rules came into force in February 2015.
        </p>
                    <p>
          In May 2014 the European Commission published an initial comprehensive review of its financial regulation framework, following the proposal of more than 40 reform measures in the wake of the economic and financial crisis in the eurozone. In November 2016 the Commission proposed a number of amendments to the CRD, as part of a package of legislative measures that also sought to amend the Capital Requirements Regulation, the BRRD and the Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation (see 
          <i>Economic Co-operation</i>
          ), in order to address structural weaknesses and further bolster the European economy.
        </p>
                    <p>
          In September 2015 the Commission adopted a plan identifying measures to be implemented in order to introduce a Capital Markets Union (CMU), in an effort further to integrate capital markets and increase the resilience of the financial system. In response to the adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, in July 2020 the Commission adopted a capital markets recovery package. In September the Commission adopted a new CMU action plan, comprising three principal objectives: supporting a sustainable, digital and resilient economic recovery by facilitating access to financing for EU companies; enhancing the security of the savings and investments of individuals throughout the EU; and integrating the national capital markets of EU member states within the single market. In February 2021, as part of the recovery package, the Council adopted an initial series of measures to help companies to access funding, including through targeted amendments to MiFiD II, to facilitate the recapitalization of businesses on financial markets. Effort to develop a CMU had also been adversely impacted by the loss of the UK’s financial sector from the bloc as a result of Brexit, which had led to increased fragmentation of the EU’s capital markets. Planned reforms published by the Commission in November 2021 included proposals to introduce a new European Single Access Point, as part of the EU’s digital finance strategy (adopted in September 2020), to provide free and transparent information about companies, their sustainability and investment opportunities—of benefit, in particular, to smaller companies in smaller capital markets. There were plans to review European Long-Term Investment Funds (ELTIF) to make them more accessible, in particular by removing a minimum investment threshold of €10,000. Provisional agreement on the ELTIF was reached in October 2022
          <!--https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/10/19/european-long-term-investment-funds-provisional-agreement-reached/-->
           . The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive was also to be reformed, along with a review of MiFiD II to introduce a so-called European consolidated `tape’, to facilitate wider access to trading data by providing a close to real-time record of prices and transactions across the EU.
        </p>
                    <p>
          In July 2021 the Commission presented proposals for legislation to reinforce the EU’s existing rules on anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism (AML/CFT). The Commission proposed establishing an AML Authority (AMLA) to combat money laundering, improve detection and prevent terrorist activities being funded through the financial system; agreement to establish the AMLA was reached in December 2023 and in February 2024 Frankfurt am Main, Germany was announced as AMLA’s location. Provisional agreement between the Council and the EP on anti-money laundering legislation was reached in January 2024, including new rules for the cryptocurrency sector and extending reporting rules to other sectors, e.g. luxury goods traders.
          <!--https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2024/01/18/anti-money-laundering-council-and-parliament-strike-deal-on-stricter-rules/#:~:text=The%20provisional%20agreement%20on%20an,activities%20through%20the%20financial%20system.-->
                    </p>
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-sectref>
          <int-org-sectref id="SL1112101" int-org-sectrefdtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1112100" slsdocid="1103350" slsdocty="int-org-section int-org-sectrefdtd">
               
               <int-org-section id="WB02048.IO.TXT.286" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="int-org_eu" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <heading>Economic Co-operation</heading>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.184" usage="ewyb edio casee">A review of the economic situation is presented annually by the Commission, analysing recent developments and short- and medium-term prospects. Economic policy guidelines for the following year are adopted annually by the Council.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.185" usage="edio casee">The following objectives for the end of 1973 were agreed by the Council in 1971, as the first of three stages towards European economic and monetary union: the narrowing of exchange rate margins to 2.25%; creation of a medium-term pool of reserves; co-ordination of short- and medium-term economic and budgetary policies; a joint position on international monetary issues; har­mon­ization of taxes; cre­ation of the European Monetary Co-operation Fund (EMCF); and creation of the European Regional Development Fund.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.187" usage="edio casee">The narrowing of exchange margins (the `snake’) came into effect in 1972; however, Denmark, France, Ireland, Italy and the UK later floated their currencies, with only Denmark perma­nently returning to the arrangement. Sweden withdrew from the arrangement in August 1977, and Norway withdrew in December 1978.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.188" usage="ewyb edio casee">The European Monetary System (EMS) came into force in March 1979, with the aim of creating closer monetary co-operation, leading to a zone of monetary stability in Europe, principally through an Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM), supervised by the ministries of finance and the central banks of member states. Greece did not join the ERM, Spain joined in June 1989, the UK in October 1990 and Portugal in April 1992. To prevent wide fluctuations in the value of members’ currencies against each other, the ERM fixed for each currency a central rate in European Currency Units (ECUs, see below), based on a `basket’ of national currencies; a reference rate in relation to other currencies was fixed for each currency, with established fluctuation margins. Central banks of the participating states intervened by buying or selling currencies when the agreed margin was likely to be exceeded. Each member placed 20% of its gold reserves and dollar reserves, respectively, into the EMCF, and received a supply of ECUs to regulate central bank interventions. Short- and medium-term credit facilities supported the balance of payments of member countries. However, the exchange rates of non-Community currencies fluctuated widely, and economic development varied among member states, leading to nine realignments of currencies in 1979-83. In 1992-93 there was great pressure on currency markets, and in September 1992 Italian and British membership of the ERM was suspended; the UK remained outside the ERM, but the Italian lira was readmitted in November 1996. In July 1993, as a result of intensive currency speculation on European financial markets, the ERM almost collapsed. In response, EC ministers responsible for finance decided to widen the fluctuation margins allowed for each currency, except in the cases of Germany and the Netherlands, which agreed to maintain their currencies within the original limits. In practice, most currencies remained within the former narrower bands during 1994. Austria joined the EMS in January 1995; Finland joined in October 1996. Sweden remained outside the EMS.</p>
                    <p id="WB02047.TXT.66000" usage="casee ewyb edio">The Treaty on European Union came into force on 1 November 1993, providing for Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) to be implemented in three stages, with the gradual introduction of a single currency, to be administered by a single central bank. In December 1995 the European Council confirmed that Stage III of EMU was to begin on 1 January 1999 and that the new single currency would be known as the euro. Member countries remaining outside the monetary system would remain part of the single market. At a meeting of the European Council in Dublin, Ireland, in December 1996 the heads of government endorsed the new ERM and the legal framework for the euro, and approved the Stability and Growth Pact (SGP), intended to ensure that member countries maintained strict budgetary discipline. In March 1998 Greece was admitted to the ERM, causing a 14% devaluation of its national currency. In May a meeting of heads of state and of government agreed that existing ERM central rates were to be used to determine the final rates of exchange between national currencies and the euro. A European Central Bank (ECB) was established in June.</p>
                    <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.191" usage="ewyb edio casee">In May 1998 heads of state and of government confirmed that 11 countries would take part in Stage III of EMU. On 31 December ministers responsible for economic and financial affairs adopted the conversion rates for the national currencies of the countries participating in the single currency. The euro was formally launched on 1 January 1999, together with the ERM’s successor, ERM-II. Greece and Denmark joined ERM-II, but in September 2000 Danish voters participating in a national referendum rejected the adoption of the euro. On 1 January 2001 Greece became the 12th EU member state to adopt the euro. A national referendum held in Sweden in September 2003 rejected the adoption of the euro. The UK also declined to participate.</p>
                    <p id="WB02047.TXT.69000" usage="casee ewyb edio">Under the original terms of the SGP, member states were obliged to keep budget deficits to within 3% of gross domestic product (GDP), or have fines imposed, and to bring their budgets close to balance by 2004 (later extended by two years). Greece received a formal warning from the Commission in December 2004 for publishing inaccurate data concerning its public finances for 1997-2003.</p>
                    <p usage="ewyb edio casee">The countries that joined the EU on 1 May 2004 (Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia) were obliged to participate in EMU; however, adoption of the euro was dependent on the fulfilment of the same Maastricht convergence criteria as the initial entrants, which comprised conditions regarding inflation, debt, budget deficit, long-term interest rates and exchange rate stability. The exchange rate criteria included the requirement to spend at least two years in ERM-II. Although the currency was permitted to fluctuate by 15% either side of a central rate or, by common agreement, within a narrower band, the ECB specified that the limit of 2.25% would be applied when judging whether countries had achieved sufficient stability to join the eurozone. Progress towards adoption of the euro varied significantly. Slovenia adopted the euro on 1 January 2007; Cyprus and Malta were admitted on 1 January 2008, Slovakia on 1 January 2009, Estonia on 1 January 2011, Latvia on 1 January 2014 and Lithuania on 1 January 2015. Croatia, which joined the EU in July 2013, was admitted to the eurozone on 1 January 2023, by which time there were 20 participating countries. Upon admission to the eurozone, the central bank of the participating state automatically became part of the Eurosystem (which also comprises the ECB). Meanwhile, the European System of Central Banks also includes the central banks of member states that remain outside the euro area.</p>
                    <p>In 2008 a sharp contraction in global credit markets prompted EU Governments to offer widespread financial assistance to support failing banks amid the onset of recession throughout the EU. In October the President of the European Commission established a high-level group on financial supervision in the EU. Shortly afterwards, the heads of state or of government of the eurozone countries issued a Declaration on a Concerted European Action Plan of the Euro Area Countries, outlining measures to ensure liquidity for financial institutions and co-operation among European states. In October the Commission proposed a revision to the deposit guarantee schemes directive, which would increase the minimum protection for bank deposits to €100,000. In December the European Council approved a European Economic Recovery Plan (EERP), outlining a co-ordinated three-part response to the crisis, based on a new European financial market architecture; a framework plan for the recovery of the real economy; and a global response to the financial crisis. The EERP was worth around €200,000m., equivalent to some 1.5% of the EU’s total GDP. In January 2009 the Commission adopted decisions aimed at strengthening the supervisory framework for EU financial markets.</p>
                    <p>The estimated 12.7% Greek budgetary deficit for 2009 was deemed potentially destabilizing to markets and to the eurozone. In January 2010 the ECOFIN Council advised the Greek Government to embrace a far-reaching economic reform plan aimed at gradually reducing Greece’s budget deficit. The Commission endorsed the plan in February and, using new powers given under the Treaty of Lisbon, imposed a new `quasi-permanent’ surveillance system on the management of Greece’s public finances. Furthermore, the Commission issued a formal warning to the Greek authorities regarding the need to pursue policies consistent with the broad economic guidelines adopted by the Council, and launched infringement proceedings against Greece relating to the submission of erroneous statistical data. In May 2010 the European Commission, the ECB and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) reached agreement with Greece on a programme intended to stabilize the Greek economy, in accordance with which funding of €110,000m. would be provided over a period of three years, of which €80,000m. was to originate from the countries of the eurozone. In accordance with the terms of the programme, Greece was required to implement further budget cuts, increase taxation, and reform the pensions and social security systems.</p>
                    <p>In July 2011 EU ministers responsible for finance approved the disbursement of further lending to Greece, temporarily alleviating the threat of default. In October EU leaders agreed further emergency measures designed to help to resolve the eurozone debt crisis. The agreement provided for the recapitalization of private banks; provided for losses of one-half of the banks’ holdings of Greek debt; and increased the financial strength of the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF—see below). In March 2012 EU finance ministers approved further lending to Greece by the EU, the ECB and the IMF (known as the troika), worth some €130,000m., in addition to the funds already committed, but not yet disbursed. In November new stringent measures were approved by Greece, and were followed by the adoption of a revised austerity budget. In December the troika approved the second disbursement under the economic adjustment programme; under revised targets, debt was to be reduced to 124% of GDP (rather than 120%) by 2020, and the troika agreed to provide €26,000m. in additional financing for 2012-16, and to cover further gaps provided that the programme was implemented. Greece defaulted on a repayment to the IMF at the end of June, and capital controls were imposed. In July Greece made a formal request for additional lending under the European Stability Mechanism (ESM—see below). Eurozone ministers of finance and heads of state and of government reached provisional agreement on new lending, subject to the implementation of additional austerity measures. In August the Board of Governors of the ESM approved the new lending to Greece, worth up to €86,000m. over a period of three years. In August 2018 Greece successfully exited its bailout arrangement with the EU.</p>
                    <p>Ireland, Portugal and Spain also required EU funding in the wake of the economic crisis. In June 2012 Cyprus became the fifth member of the eurozone to seek emergency EU funding, and an agreement was reached with the EU in March 2013 on the terms required for the disbursement of lending. In September 2012 the President of the ECB announced a new outright monetary transactions programme (an unlimited bond-buying programme), under which the ECB guaranteed that it would purchase eurozone countries’ short-term bonds, if required, in order to reduce the market rates of interest for countries encountering speculation that they might be compelled to leave the eurozone. A programme of quantitative easing, the Public Sector Purchase Programme, was launched in March 2015.</p>
                    <p>In May 2010 eurozone member states agreed to the establishment of a new, temporary institution, the EFSF, with a lending capacity of €4,400m., which aimed to maintain financial stability in the eurozone through the provision of rapid financial assistance to member countries. In late June heads of state and of government agreed to expand the EFSF’s remit and increase its guarantee commitments from €4,400m. to €7,800m. The EFSF’s scope was further expanded in late July, and all amendments to the EFSF Framework entered into force in mid-October 2011. The EFSF, based in Luxembourg, was backed by guarantees from 14 of the eurozone’s then 17 members (Greece, Ireland and Portugal were exempted). Meanwhile, in October 2010 the European Council had agreed to establish a permanent crisis mechanism, the ESM, to safeguard the financial stability of the eurozone. Combined with strengthened economic governance and monitoring, the ESM, which was to have an overall lending capacity of €500,000m., aimed to prevent the development of future crises. In late July 2011 EU heads of state and of government taking part in an emergency Euro Area Summit in Brussels agreed to reduce EFSF interest rates and extend the maturities of future loans issued to Greece, Ireland and Portugal, in an effort to strengthen their financial programmes. In February 2012 representatives of the eurozone countries, meeting in Brussels, signed a treaty providing for the establishment of the ESM, which was inaugurated on 8 October. The EFSF and the associated European Financial Stabilization Mechanism remained responsible only for lending approved prior to the establishment of the ESM.</p>
                    <p>
          Meanwhile, in December 2011 the majority of EU member states had reached agreement in principle on new fiscal arrangements, designed to increase fiscal discipline and convergence in the eurozone. The Treaty on Stability, Co-ordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union, including the so-called fiscal compact (non-binding for countries outside the eurozone), 
          <i>inter alia</i>
          , required member states to maintain a balanced budget (or a deficit of no more than 0.5% of nominal GDP). Agreement was reached on increased co-operation on economic policy and an acceleration of arrangements for the introduction of the ESM. In March 2012 25 heads of state and of government signed the new treaty, which entered into force on 1 January 2013. (Croatia and the Czech Republic acceded to the treaty in 2018-19.)
        </p>
                    <p>In December 2011 new rules, comprising five regulations and one directive (the `six-pack’), came into effect, applying to both the procedures within the SGP that are designed to prevent excessive deficits, and the excessive deficit procedure (EDP), which is the corrective branch of the pact. New measures, specifically financial disincentives and fines, were to be applied to non-compliant eurozone members in an effort to strengthen the efficacy of the SGP. At the end of May supplementary governance reform measures, known as the `two-pack’, entered into force throughout the eurozone. The new measures sought to ensure increased transparency for budgetary decisions, to strengthen co-ordination in the eurozone from 2014, and to recognize its particular needs. They also prepared the way for the possible introduction of additional measures to reinforce EMU at supranational level.</p>
                    <p>In December 2012 EU ministers responsible for finance approved plans for the establishment of a banking union, comprising (i) a single European framework for the supervision of banks, and an associated set of harmonized banking regulations; (ii) a Single Resolution Mechanism (SRM) to govern and co-ordinate the provision (or withdrawal) of support for failing banks, by means of levies on the sector, rather than through public financing; and (iii) a common system for the protection of bank deposits throughout the EU. Accordingly, the Council endorsed plans for the ECB’s powers to be considerably expanded, to enable it to act as a Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM), with responsibility for the supervision of major banks (those with assets of either more than €30,000m., or equivalent to 20% of national GDP) in operation throughout the eurozone. The SSM was to co-operate closely with national regulatory authorities, with the aim of safeguarding financial stability. With the appointment of a banking supervisor for the eurozone, the ESM would be able to disburse funds directly to banks, rather than through individual central banks. The establishment of an ECB-led SSM was formally approved in October 2013 and it came into operation in November 2014. The SRM had been approved by the European Parliament (EP) in April, and entered into operation in January 2016.</p>
                    <p>In mid-2015 the Presidents of the Commission, the European Council, the EP, the informal Eurogroup of eurozone ministers of finance and the ECB published a report (the `Five Presidents’ Report’) on completing EMU, which comprised a planned programme of reform to secure the objective of full economic, financial, fiscal and political union, in three stages, by 2025. The Commission launched Stage 1 of the process of completing EMU in July 2015. In November the Commission proposed the establishment of a European Deposit Insurance Scheme (EDIS), which, it was envisaged, would serve as the third `pillar’ of the banking union by means of a three-stage process: the introduction of a reinsurance scheme over a period of three years, a subsequent four-year co-insurance scheme and, finally, full insurance. The Commission also published a communication, `Towards the Completion of the Banking Union’, which proposed improved economic governance, together with the creation of national Competitiveness Boards and a European Fiscal Board, in an advisory role, as well as a more integrated external representation of the eurozone at international financial institutions, in particular the IMF. In March 2017 the leaders of the EU member states and of the principal EU institutions signed the Rome Declaration, in the Italian capital, committing themselves to the completion of EMU by 2025. In December 2018 the eurozone heads of state and of government endorsed plans to reform the ESM; in early 2021 ESM member countries signed an agreement amending the ESM treaty; at early 2024 the treaty was awaiting ratification by Italy, the only ESM country not yet to have done so.</p>
                    <p>On 12 March 2020, in response to the economic disruption caused throughout the EU by the COVID-19 pandemic, the ECB announced an expansion of its programme of quantitative easing. Following a more significant curtailment of consumer and economic activity throughout EU member states amid the spread of the pandemic, on 18 March the ECB announced the launch of a temporary Pandemic Emergency Purchase Programme, a new asset-purchasing scheme worth €750,000m. (increased to €1,350,000m. in June), together with a commitment to protect the eurozone. On 23 March EU ministers of finance agreed to implement a so-called escape clause, permitting the suspension of the SGP until at least 2022, in order to allow member states to undertake the measures needed to mitigate the severe economic impact of the pandemic, even if the implementation of such measures would result in the violation of budgetary requirements under the EU’s fiscal framework. Additional emergency measures were agreed by eurozone ministers of finance in April 2020, including the proposed establishment of a specialized COVID-19 instrument to support the release of aid. In May proposals for a large-scale recovery plan for Europe were put forward by the Commission. A new temporary recovery instrument, Next Generation EU, was proposed, and was adopted in December which, in conjunction with agreement on a strengthened Multi-annual Financial Framework for 2021-27, was to support the creation of a Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF), worth some €672,500m. in loans and grants to aid economic recovery from the COVID-19 crisis. In addition, REACT EU was to provide targeted crisis response and recovery measures by supplementing proposed cohesion funding for 2021-27. The Commission also proposed increased funding for the so-called Just Transition Mechanism (a €100,000m. fund conceived in January 2020 as part of the European Green Deal Investment Plan) and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. Other measures were put forward to stimulate the economy by facilitating investment through the establishment of a Solvency Support Instrument, an expansion of the Invest EU facility and the introduction of a new Strategic Investment Facility. In February 2021 the Council adopted a regulation establishing the RRF, to run until the end of 2026. By the end of May the ratification by member states of the own resources decision confirming national spending commitments was complete.</p>
                    <p>The Commission outlined proposed reforms to the SGP and the EU economic governance framework in April 2023, which aimed to promote sustainable growth as well as debt sustainability. The proposals encompassed: replacing the regulation on the surveillance of economic policies; amending the regulation on the SGP EDP; and amending the directive on member state budgetary frameworks requirements. The Council in December agreed on a new SGP framework, whereby the reference values of a budget deficit of below 3% of GDP and a debt-to-GDP ratio of below 60% would remain unchanged, but individual member states’ medium-term fiscal and structural plans would be taken into account within a common EU framework. Member states with a debt-to-GDP ratio above 90% would be obliged to reduce the ratio by an annual average of 1% within four-five years (with the potential to extend the timeframe to seven years), while those with a ratio of 60%-90% would need to reduce the ratio by 0.5% per year. Provisional political agreement between the Council and the EP on the revised SGP proposals was reached in February 2024.</p>
                    <!--https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2023/12/21/economic-governance-review-council-agrees-on-reform-of-fiscal-rules/-->
                    <!--https://economy-finance.ec.europa.eu/system/files/2022-11/com_2022_583_1_en.pdf-->
                    <int-org-section id="WB02048.IO.TXT.287" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                         <heading>The Euro</heading>
                         <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.194" usage="edio ewyb">With the creation of the EMS in 1979, a new monetary unit, the ECU, was adopted. Its value and composition were identical to those of the European Unit of Account (EUA) already used in the administrative fields of the Community. The ECU was a composite monetary unit, in which the relative value of each currency was determined by the gross national product and the volume of trade of each country. Assigned the function of the unit of account used by the European Monetary Co-operation Fund, the ECU was also used as the denominator for the ERM; as the denominator for operations in both the intervention and the credit mechanisms; and as a means of settlement between mone­tary authorities of the European Community. From April 1979 the ECU was also used as the unit of account for the purposes of the Common Agricultural Policy. From 1981 it replaced the EUA in the general budget of the Community.</p>
                         <p usage="edio">From September 1989 the Portuguese and Spanish currencies were included in the composition of the ECU. The composition of the ECU `basket’ of national currencies was frozen from the entry into force of the Treaty on European Union on 1 November 1993 until the termination of the ECU on 31 December 1998. (Consequently, the currencies of Austria, Finland and Sweden, on those countries’ accession to the EU, were not represented in the ECU basket.)</p>
                         <p usage="edio ewyb">As part of Stage III of the process of EMU, the ECU was replaced by a single currency, the euro (€), on 1 January 1999, at a conversion rate of 1:1. Initially, the euro was used for cashless payments and accounting purposes, while the traditional national currencies, then considered as `sub-units’ of the euro, continued to be used for cash payments. On 1 January 2002 euro coins and banknotes entered into circulation in the then 12 participating countries and, by the end of February, the former national currencies of all of the participating countries had been withdrawn. The euro’s value in national currencies is calculated and pub­lished daily, and stood at €1&#160;=&#160;US&#160;$1.0907 on 21 March 2024, when there were 20 participating countries.</p>
                         <!--update exchange rate!!! https://www.ecb.europa.eu/stats/policy_and_exchange_rates/euro_reference_exchange_rates/html/index.en.html-->
                         <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.201" usage="ewyb edio">A payments settlement system, known as TARGET (Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer), was introduced for countries participating in EMU on 4 January 1999. An upgraded version of the system, TARGET2, was launched in November 2007. The Single Euro Payments Area, which was introduced gradually from 2008, was designed to enable all electronic payments across the eurozone to be made as efficiently and securely as domestic payments within a single member state.</p>
                         <p id="WB02048.IO.TXT.202" usage="ewyb edio">
            Three interest rates are set for the eurozone: the rate on the main refinancing operations, providing most of the banking system’s liquidity; the rate on the deposit facility, which may be used by banks making overnight deposits with the euro system; and the rate on the marginal lending facility, which offers overnight credit to banks from the euro system. From October 2008 refinancing oper­ations were conducted through a fixed-rate tender procedure, having been conducted as variable rate tenders since June 2000. During the second half of 2008 and early 2009 the ECB considerably reduced interest rates with the aim of stimulating non-inflationary growth and contributing to financial stability. The ECB reduced the fixed refinancing rate progressively from 3.75% in October 2008 to 1.0% at 13 May 2009 (that rate remaining in force until 13 April 2011). The rates set in 2009 represented the lowest eurozone rates (whether variable or fixed) set in the decade from January 1999. The fixed refinancing rate was 0.75% at 11 July 2012 and 0.05% by 10 September 2014. The ECB reduced the fixed refinancing rate to 0.00% with effect from 16 March 2016. It increased to 0.50% at 27 July 2022 and continued to rise thereafter; it was 4.50% 
            
            from 20 September 2023.
            <!--https://www.ecb.europa.eu/stats/policy_and_exchange_rates/key_ecb_interest_rates/html/index.en.html-->
                         </p>
                         <!--June 2023 - proposals towards a possible digital form of the euro https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_23_3501-->
                    </int-org-section>
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-sectref>
     </int-org-entry>
     