<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-sectref id="SL1117730" int-org-sectrefdtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1117729" slsdocid="1115680" slsdocty="int-org-section int-org-sectrefdtd"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
          
          <int-org-section id="WB02050.IO.TXT.536" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="int-org_eu" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="edio">
               <heading>European Union Fundamental and other Treaties</heading>
               <legal-block>
                    <p>The following treaties have formed the basis of EU legislation:</p>
                    <gen-list>
                         <item>
                              <p>Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community (Treaty of Paris), effective from 25 July 1952—23 July 2002. Leaders signing the Treaty of Paris at the same time signed the Europe Declaration, stating that the creation of the new Community gave `proof of their determination to create the first supranational institution and that thus they are laying the true foundation of an organized Europe’.</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p>Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community (Treaty of Rome/Euratom Treaty), effective from 1 January 1958. Amended by subsequent treaties, including the Merger Treaty, the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty of Amsterdam and the Treaty of Nice.</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p>Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (Treaty of Rome), known until the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon (which replaced all references to `Community’ with `Union’) as the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, effective from 1 January 1958. Amended by subsequent treaties, including the Merger Treaty, the Single European Act, the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty of Amsterdam, the Treaty of Rome, the Treaty of Nice, and the Treaty of Lisbon.</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WB02050.IO.TXT.392">The Single European Act (SEA). On 1 July 1987 amendments to the Treaties of Paris and Rome, in the form of the SEA, came into effect, following ratification by all the Member States. The Act contained provisions aiming to complete by 31 December 1992 the creation of a single Community market—`an area without internal frontiers in which the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital is ensured'. Other provisions increased Community co-operation in research and technology, social policy (particularly the improvement of working conditions), economic and social cohesion (reduction of disparities between regions), environmental protection, creation of economic and monetary union, and foreign policy. It allowed the Council of Ministers to take decisions by a qualified majority vote on matters which previously, under the Treaty of Rome, had required unanimity; this applied principally to matters relating to the establishment of the internal market. The Act increased the powers of the European Parliament to delay and amend legislation, by introducing a new co-operation procedure for major decisions concerned with the completion of the internal market, although the Council retained final decision-making powers. The Act provided for the establishment of the Court of First Instance. The Act also provided for the establishment of a secretariat for European political co-operation on matters of foreign policy.</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p>Treaty on European Union (Maastricht Treaty). Effective from 1 November 1993. Amended by the Treaty of Amsterdam, the Treaty of Nice, and the Treaty of Lisbon. Established the European Union, with a `pillar’ structure, comprising: the European Community (EC), Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP), and Justice and Home Affairs pillars. (The pillar structure was subsequently disbanded by provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon.) Enabled the development of the euro (currency). At the meeting of the European Council in December 1992, it was agreed that Denmark was to be exempted from certain central provisions of the Maastricht Treaty, including those regarding monetary union, European citizenship and defence (subject to approval by a second Danish referendum, which ratified the Treaty in May 1993). A protocol to the Treaty was approved and a separate agreement signed by all Member States except the United Kingdom on social policy, based on the Charter of Fundamental Social Rights (the Social Charter) of 1989. Following the decision of the Government of the United Kingdom to subscribe to the Social Charter with effect from May 1997, the Treaty of Amsterdam (below) incorporated the protocol based on the Charter (by amending the Treaty of Rome establishing the European Economic Community).</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p>
              Treaty of Amsterdam. Effective from 1 May 1999. Subsequently amended by the Treaty of Nice. Introduced process of reform to EU institutions, prior to the ensuing membership enlargement process, and increased the powers of the European Parliament. A Protocol to the Treaty incorporated the Schengen 
              <i>acquis</i>
               on the freedom of movement of persons across internal European Union boundaries in order to integrate it into the framework of the European Union. The 
              <i>acquis</i>
               includes the Schengen Agreement, signed on 14 June 1985 between the Governments of the States of the Benelux Economic Union, the Federal Republic of Germany and France; the Implementation Convention, signed in Schengen on 19 June 1990 between Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, France, Luxembourg and the Netherlands; and subsequent Accession Protocols and Agreements to the 1985 Agreement and the 1990 Implementation Convention; and decisions and declarations adopted by the Executive Committee established by the Implementation Convention, as well as acts adopted for the implementation of the Convention by the organs upon which the Executive Committee has conferred decision-making powers.
            </p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p>Treaty of Nice. Effective from 1 February 2003. Amended the Treaty on European Union, the Treaties establishing the European Communities and Certain Related Acts. Reformed EU voting procedures, enabling the enlargement of the Union in 2004. Provided for the establishment of subsidiary courts. Enabled punitive sanctions to be imposed against member states.</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p>Treaty of Lisbon amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community; entered into force 1 December 2009. Aimed to redefine the functions and procedures of the EU and to enhance its efficiency and democratic transparency, finalizing a process started with the Treaty of Amsterdam and Treaty of Nice. Amended the former Treaty establishing the European Community (Treaty of Rome), renaming it the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and replacing references to the `Community’ with `Union’. Incorporated into the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union a reference to the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights (drafted and proclaimed in 2000, but with uncertain legal status hitherto), rendering that document legally binding. Gave equal legal base to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Treaty on European Union, and the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which thereafter constituted the legal basis of the EU. Provided for the posts of President of the European Council and High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy (appointed by the European Council by qualified majority with the agreement of the President of the Commission), to represent the EU internationally; and for an 18-month troika comprising groups of three successive governments holding the rotating six-month presidency of the Council of the European Union. Provided for a revised system of qualified majority voting in the Council. Granted the European Parliament the right of co-decision with the Council of the European Union in an increased number of policy areas, giving it a more prominent role in framing legislation. Raised the number of seats in the European Parliament to 751 (to be fully effective from 2014). Enshrined the principles of subsidiarity (that the EU should only act when an objective can be better achieved at the supranational level, implying that national powers are the norm) and proportionality (that the action should be proportional to the desired objective). Provided a legal basis for the EU defence force, with a mutual defence clause, and included the stipulation that the EU has the power to sign treaties and sit on international bodies as a legal entity in its own right. Provided for the establishment of a European public prosecutor’s office. Included arrangements for the formal withdrawal of a member state from the EU.</p>
                         </item>
                    </gen-list>
                    <gen-list>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WB02050.IO.TXT.481">Additional treaties have also been signed by Member States of the European Union:</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WB02050.IO.TXT.482">Treaty Instituting a Single Council and a Single Commission of the European Communities (Merger Treaty): signed in Brussels on 8 April 1965 by the six original members. This Treaty was repealed by the Treaty of Amsterdam.</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WB02050.IO.TXT.483">Treaty Modifying Certain Budgetary Arrangements of the European Communities and of the Treaty Instituting a Single Council and a Single Commission of the European Communities: signed in Luxembourg on 22 April 1970 by the six original members.</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WB02050.IO.TXT.484">Treaty Concerning the Accession of the Kingdom of Denmark, Ireland, the Kingdom of Norway and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community: signed in Brussels on 22 January 1972 (amended on 1 January 1973, owing to the non-accession of Norway).</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WB02050.IO.TXT.485">Treaty of Accession of the Hellenic Republic to the European Economic Community and to the European Atomic Energy Community: signed in Athens on 28 May 1979.</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WB02050.IO.TXT.486">Treaty of Accession of the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Spain to the European Economic Community and to the European Atomic Energy Community: signed in Lisbon and Madrid on 12 June 1985.</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WB02050.IO.TXT.487">
                                   <i>Note</i>
              : Accession of new members to the European Coal and Steel Community was enacted separately, by a Decision of the European Council.
            </p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WB02050.IO.TXT.488">
              Treaty Conc
              
              erning the Accession of the Kingdom of Norway, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden to the European Union: signed in Corfu on 24 June 1994 (amended on 1 January 1995, owing to the non-accession of Norway).
            </p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WB02050.IO.TXT.489">Treaty of Accession of the Czech Republic, Estonia, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, Malta, Poland, Slovenia and Slovakia; signed in Athens on 16 April 2003.</p>
                         </item>
                         <item id="OTHER.TREATIES.EU.001">
                              <p>Treaty of Accession of Bulgaria and Romania; signed in Luxembourg on 25 April 2005.</p>
                         </item>
                         <item id="OTHER.TREATIES.EU.002">
                              <p>Treaty of Accession of Croatia, signed in Brussels on 9 December 2011.</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p>Treaty Establishing the European Stability Mechanism, signed in Brussels on 2 February 2012.</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p>Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union, signed in Brussels on 2 March 2012.</p>
                         </item>
                    </gen-list>
               </legal-block>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-sectref>
