<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="FRANC.IO" id-root="franc.io" iso="franc.io" original-filename="wb02051.txt" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio ass"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>Franc Zone</org-entry-name>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">MAJOR NON-UN ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ass">REGIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE">Franc Zone</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <internet>www.tresor.economie.gouv.fr/tresor-international/la-zone-franc</internet>
          </address-block>
          <int-org-section id="FRANC.IO.5678" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Members</heading>
               <table-block-simple id="FRANC.IO.1234" type="OTHER">
                    <table pgwide="NO" style="WITHOUT-RULES">
                         <tgroup cols="2">
                              <colspec colwidth="10cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="10cm" />
                              <tbody>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Benin</entry>
                                        <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Equatorial Guinea</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Burkina Faso</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">France</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Cameroon</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Gabon</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Central African Republic</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Guinea-Bissau</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Chad</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Mali</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Comoros</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Niger</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Congo, Republic</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Senegal</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Côte d'Ivoire</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Togo</entry>
                                   </row>
                              </tbody>
                         </tgroup>
                    </table>
               </table-block-simple>
               <!--~ should UEMOA become a bigger chapter, and the Franc Zone historical info a section of that-->
               <p>
        The former French West and Equatorial African terri­tories are grouped within the two currency areas that existed before independence, each group having its own variant on the franc CFA, issued by a central bank: the franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine (`franc CFA de l'Ouest'), issued by the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="FRANC.IO.32">Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest—BCEAO</xr>
        , and the franc Coopération financière en Afrique Centrale (`franc CFA central'), issued by the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="FRANC.IO.38">Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale—BEAC</xr>
        . In 1981 the Banque Centrale des Comores introduced a Comoros franc. An accord adopted in December 2019, in Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire, by France and the Union Economique et Monétaire Ouest-Africaine (UEMOA), provided for reform of the historic monetary arrangements (see 
        <i>The 2019 Monetary Co-operation Agreement</i>
        ).
      </p>
               <p id="FRANC.IO.21.1">Equatorial Guinea, formerly a Spanish territory, joined the zone in January 1985, and Guinea-Bissau, a former Portuguese territory, joined in May 1997.</p>
               <!--the Banque de France-s feed on the Zone Franc ends in 2019 https://www.connectionivoirienne.net/2021/12/28/xof-ce-qui-dit-france-diplomatie-sur-le-fcfa-discours-officiel/ -->
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="FRANC.IO.BACKGROUND.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Background</heading>
               <p>
        From 1 January 2002, when European economic and monetary union was finalized and the French franc withdrawn from circulation, the franc CFA and Comoros franc became officially pegged to the euro, at a fixed rate of exchange. Arrangements previously concluded between France and the Franc Zone remained in force that provided the Franc Zone currencies with unlimited convertibility into euros, at a fixed exchange rate, guaranteed by the French Treasury; central issuing banks were based in each group of member countries, and the Comoros—with overdraft facilities provided by the French Treasury, and monetary reserves held mainly in the form of euros. The 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="FRANC.IO.32">BCEAO</xr>
         and the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="FRANC.IO.38">BEAC</xr>
         were authorized to hold up to 35% of their foreign exchange holdings in currencies other than the euro; one-half of foreign reserves were required to be held by the Banque de France, receiving 0.75% interest from the French Treasury.
      </p>
               <p id="FRANC.IO.24" usage="ass">In 1990 the Franc Zone governments agreed to develop an economic union, with integrated public finances and common commercial legislation. In April 1992, at a meeting of Franc Zone ministers, a treaty on the insurance industry was adopted, providing for the establishment of a regulatory body for the industry, the Conférence Intrafricaine des Marchés d'Assurances (CIMA), and for the creation of a ministerial council for the insurance industry, with its secretariat in Libreville, Gabon. A code of conduct for members of CIMA entered into force in February 1995. At the meeting held in April 1992 ministers also agreed that a further council of ministers should be created to monitor the social security systems in Franc Zone countries. A programme drawn up by Franc Zone finance ministers concerning the harmonization of commercial legislation in member states through the establishment of l'Organ­isation pour l'Harmonisation en Afrique du Droit des Affaires (OHADA) was approved by the Franco-African summit in October. A treaty to align corporate and investment regulations was signed by 11 member countries in October 1993. The member governments co-operated in countering money laundering.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="FRANC.IO.ECO.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>The 2019 Monetary Co-operation Agreement</heading>
               <p>On 21 December 2019 the ministers responsible for finance of the UEMOA member states and their French counterpart signed a Monetary Co-operation Agreement that, upon its full entry into force, would provide for a new currency, the eco, to replace the franc CFA. (The negotiation of the Agreement had been instigated at the request of the UEMOA member states.) The eco was to be pegged to the euro with a fixed exchange rate and an unlimited and unconditional guarantee of convertibility provided by France (to continue to support UEMOA’s macroeconomic stability). The obligation for UEMOA member states to centralize their exchange reserves with the French Treasury was removed, and France was to cease participating in governance of the zone (this was effected in 2020). Ad hoc mechanisms on risk monitoring and dialogue were to be established. A dedicated agreement defining the guarantee mechanism and specifying the terms under which the guarantee might be triggered was signed by the BCEAO and the French authorities in December 2020. The Monetary Co-operation Agreement was endorsed by France’s Assemblée nationale on 10 November, and by the Sénat on 28 January 2021. Progress in ratifying the Agreement was, however, delayed in the UEMOA region.</p>
               <p> In December 2023 the BCEAO estimated that—having decelerated to 1.8% in 2020, and then rebounded to 6.1% in 2021, and stabilized at 5.7% in 2022—overall economic growth in the UEMOA member states in 2023 had continued at 5.7%—attributed to strong investment and final consumption patterns. Growth of 6.5% was forecast for 2024. Overall, the public deficit had expanded in 2023, to an estimated 6.7% of GDP, compared with 5.9% in 2022. At January 2024 the overall rate of inflation in member states stood at 7.4%.</p>
               <p usage="edio">In the first half of 2022 the value of the CFA franc against the US dollar markedly declined, in view of the CFA franc’s pegging to the euro, which in mid-July fell below parity with the US dollar for the first time in two decades; a slight rebound was recorded from October.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="FRANC.IO.26A" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Currencies of the Franc Zone</heading>
               <p>The monetary areas of West and Central Africa both use the franc CFA, standing for Communauté financière africaine and for Coopération financière en Afrique centrale in the respective areas. (1 franc CFA&#8201;=&#8201;€0.00152.) The Comoros franc is used in the Comoros, where it replaced the franc CFA in 1981. (1 Comoros franc&#8201;=&#8201;€0.00203.) </p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="FRANC.IO.38A" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Central Issuing Banks</heading>
               <org-list>
                    <org-entry id="FRANC.IO.39" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Banque Centrale des Comores</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>pl. de France, BP 405, Moroni, The Comoros</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(773) 1814</telephone>
                              <email>secretariat@banque-comores.km</email>
                              <internet>www.banque-comores.km</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1981</found-date>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Gov.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Dr</title>
                                        <forename>Imani</forename>
                                        <surname>Younoussa</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="FRANC.IO.32" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>BCEAO</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>BP 7125, Abidjan 01, Côte d'Ivoire</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">20-25-57-57</telephone>
                              <email>mail.bceao@bceao.int</email>
                              <internet>www.bceao.int</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1962</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">central bank of issue for the mems of UEMOA</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">from 2020 foreign exchange reserves were no longer required to be centralized (as hitherto) with the Banque de France</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte d'Ivoire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Gov.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Jean-Claude</forename>
                                        <surname>Kassi Brou</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Côte d'Ivoire</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publs 
            <publ-name>BCEAO studies and research papers</publ-name>
            , 
            <publ-name>Economic Outlook</publ-name>
                         </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="FRANC.IO.38" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>BEAC</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>736 ave Mgr Fran­çois Xavier Vogt, BP 1917, Yaoundé, Cameroon</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">223-40-30</telephone>
                              <fax>223-33-29</fax>
                              <email>beac@beac.int</email>
                              <internet>www.beac.int</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1972 as the central bank of issue of Cameroon, Central African Rep. (CAR), Chad, Rep. of the Congo, Equa­torial Guinea and Gabon</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a monet­ary market, incorporating all national financial institutions of the BEAC countries, came into effect on 1 July 1994</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in May 2022—following the CAR’s adoption of Bitcoin as legal tender alongside the franc CFA—the bank rejected the use of cryptocurrencies in subregional financial transactions, in order to uphold financial stability</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Gov.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Yvon</forename>
                                        <surname>Sana Bangui</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>CAR</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publs 
            <publ-name>Rapport Annuel</publ-name>
            , 
            <publ-name> Situation comptable</publ-name>
             (monthly)
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
               </org-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="FRANC.IO.29" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Other Franc Zone Institutions</heading>
               <org-list>
                    <org-entry id="FRANC.IO.37" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Banque de Développement des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>BDEAC</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>blvd Denis Sassou N'Guesso, BP 1177, Brazzaville, Republic of the Congo</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">426-83-00</telephone>
                              <email>bdeac@bdeac.org</email>
                              <internet>www.bdeac.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1975</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">auth. cap. 1,200,000m. francs CFA (increased in 2014 from 250,000m.); shareholders: Cameroon, Central African Rep., Chad, Rep. of the Congo, Gabon, Equatorial Guinea, the AfDB, BEAC, France, Libya, Kuwait</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Dieudonné</forename>
                                        <surname>Evou Mekou</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Cameroon</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="FRANC.IO.33" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Banque Ouest-Africaine de Développement</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>BOAD</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>62 ave de la Libération, BP 1172, Lomé, Togo</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">22-21-59-06</telephone>
                              <fax>22-21-52-67</fax>
                              <email>boadsiege@boad.org</email>
                              <internet>www.boad.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1973</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">established to promote the balanced devt of mem. states and the economic integra­tion of West Africa</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">promotes small and medium-sized businesses; public-private partnerships; infrastructure and digital economy; energy and natural resources; agriculture and food safety; health and education; real estate and social housing; and environment and climate finance</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in 2011 accredited as the first regional implementing entity of the UNFCCC’s Adaptation Fund</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">issued in Jan. 2021 its inaugural sustainability bond, aimed at funding sustainable devt initiatives</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">auth. cap. 1,155,000m. francs CFA</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte d'Ivoire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Serge</forename>
                                        <surname>Ekué</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Benin</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publs 
            <publ-name>Rapport Annuel</publ-name>
            , 
            <publ-name>BOAD en Bref</publ-name>
             (quarterly)
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="FRANC.IO.34" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Bourse Régionale des Valeurs Mobilières (BRVM)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>18 rue Joseph Anoma, BP 3802, Abidjan 01, Côte d'Ivoire</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">20-32-66-85</telephone>
                              <email>brvm@brvm.org</email>
                              <internet>www.brvm.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1998</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">regional electronic stock exchange</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Man. Dir</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Edoh Kossi</forename>
                                        <surname>Amenounve</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publs 
            <publ-name>Monthly Bulletins</publ-name>
            , 
            <publ-name>Quarterly Statistics</publ-name>
                         </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="FRANC.IO.35" iso="franc.io.35" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Communauté Economique et Monétaire de l'Afrique Centrale</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>CEMAC</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>BP 969, Bangui, Central African Republic</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">21-61-47-81</telephone>
                              <email>cemac@cemac.int</email>
                              <internet>www.cemac.int</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1998</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">formally inaugurated as the successor to the Union Douanière et Economique de l'Afrique Centrale (UDEAC, f.&#8201;1966) at a meeting of heads of state held in Malabo, Equatorial Guinea, in June 1999; aims to promote the process of subregional integration within the framework of an economic and monetary union; CEMAC was also to comprise a parliament and a subregional tribunal; UDEAC established a common external tariff for imports from other countries, and admin­istered a common code for investment policy and a Soli­darity Fund to counteract regional disparities of wealth and eco­nomic devt; in Oct. 2017 CEMAC mem. states issued a formal declaration that an agreement concluded in June 2013 to abolish visa requirements between mem. states for citizens in possession of biometric identification documentation had been fully ratified</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            in Aug. 2022 a meeting of the Steering Committee for the Rationalization of Regional Economic Communities in Central Africa (a technical advisory body with participation by reps of 11 Central African states), convened in Yaoundé, Cameroon, agreed in principle to merge CEMAC, the 
            <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XB.IO.TXT.67">Communauté Economique des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale (CEEAC)</xr>
             and the 
            <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XB.IO.TXT.74">Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries</xr>
             into a single org.; however, a summit of CEEAC leaders convened in Feb. 2023 determined that the proposed merger should be postponed
          </content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the 15th regular summit of CEMAC heads of state (the first in-person summit since 2019) was held in March 2023, in Yaoundé, Cameroon; the agenda included a discussion on crypto assets and currencies, which—following the Central African Rep.’s adoption of Bitcoin as legal tender, alongside the franc&#160;CFA—had been banned in the CEMAC area in May 2022 by the regulatory Commission Bancaire de l’Afrique Centrale (COBAC, a subsid. body of CEMAC, chaired by the Gov. of BEAC); a co-operation agreement with France concerning a legal framework on cryptocurrencies was envisaged</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a CEMAC Business Energy Forum is convened annually</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: Cameroon, Central African Rep., Chad, Rep. of the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Baltasar</forename>
                                        <surname>Engonga Edjo’o</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Equatorial Guinea</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="FRANC.IO.30" iso="franc.io.30" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Union Economique et Monétaire Ouest-Africaine</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>UEMOA</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>380 ave Prof. Joseph Ki-Zerbo, BP 543, Ouagadougou 01, Burkina Faso</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">25-31-88-73</telephone>
                              <fax>25-31-88-72</fax>
                              <email>commission@uemoa.int</email>
                              <internet>www.uemoa.int</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1994</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">promotes regional monet­ary and economic conver­gence, and envisages the eventual creation of a subregional common market</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the Ouagadougou-based UEMOA Court of Justice (f.&#8201;1995) arbitrates disputes between mem. states, and between the Union and other bodies</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a preferential tariff scheme became operational on 1 July 1996; in addition, from 1 July, a community solidarity levy of 0.5% (increased to 1% in December 1999) was imposed on all goods from third countries sold within the Union, in order to strengthen UEMOA's capacity to promote eco­nomic integration</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">on 1 Jan. 2000 internal tariffs were eliminated on all local products (incl. industrial goods) and an external tariff system, in 5 bands of between 0% and 20%, was imposed on goods deriving from outside the new customs union; Guinea-Bissau and Mali joined the arrangement in 2003</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">mem. states adopted a treaty on the establishment of a UEMOA parliament in Jan. 2003</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            a High-level Committee on Food Security monitors the regional food and nutrition security situation and promotes policies aimed at addressing structural causes of food crises; UEMOA and ECOWAS jtly participate in a Food Crisis Prevention Network, which is co-ordinated by the 
            <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XB.IO.TXT.98">Permanent Interstate Committee on Drought Control in the Sahel,</xr>
             and supported by the OECD’s Sahel and West Africa Club
          </content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">an advisory Labour and Social Dialogue Council was established in March 2009</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">also in that month UEMOA adopted a regional initiative for sustainable energy, aiming to meet all regional electricity needs by 2030; in May 2018 UEMOA and ECOWAS jtly initiated an EU-supported programme aimed at improving energy governance in West Africa</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a subsidiary mortgage refinancing institution (Caisse Régionale de Refinancement Hypothécaire de l’UEMOA—CRRH-UEMOA) was established in July 2010</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in July 2019 UEMOA and ECOWAS mins responsible for the environment, and also their counterpart from Mauritania, jtly launched a Programme of Support for the Preservation of Biodiversity and Fragile Ecosystems</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">on 21 Dec. 2019 UEMOA and France adopted an agreement that (upon full entry into force) was to provide for a new currency, the eco, to replace the franc CFA</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in March 2021 UEMOA and the BOAD adopted a draft bilateral co-operation agreement on accelerating the digital transformation of the UEMOA area</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">an extraordinary meeting of UEMOA heads of state or of govt, convened in July 2023, suspended co-operation with Niger, in view of the recent assumption of power there by a military junta</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">it was reported in early 2024 that the military regime in Burkina Faso was considering withdrawing that country from UEMOA</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte d'Ivoire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali (suspended Jan. 2022-July 2023), Niger (suspended), Senegal, Togo</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Abdoulaye</forename>
                                        <surname>Diop</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Senegal</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
               </org-list>
               <p id="FRANC.IO.36">
        At a summit meeting in December 1981 leaders of the former UDEAC agreed in principle to establish an economic community of Central African member states: the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XB.IO.TXT.67">Communauté Economique des Etats de l’Afrique Centrale</xr>
         began operations in 1985, and includes the members of CEMAC, and also Burundi, Rwanda, São Tomé and Príncipe and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
      </p>
          </int-org-section>
          <!--~ IEOM ..-->
     </int-org-block>
</int-org-entry>