<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="IO-UN.1952" id-root="io-un.1952" iso="io-un.1952" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee sacac ass mena sasia fea eerca"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>International Development Association (IDA)</org-entry-name>
               <abbr>World Bank</abbr>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">UNITED NATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee sacac ass mena sasia fea eerca">REGIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb">United Nations (Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations)</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="edio">International Development Association</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">The United Nations in Central and South-Eastern Europe</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="sacac">The United Nations in South America, Central America and the Caribbean</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ass">The United Nations in Africa South of the Sahara</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="mena">The United Nations in the Middle East and North Africa</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="sasia">The United Nations in South Asia</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="fea">The United Nations in the Far East and Australasia</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="eerca">The United Nations in Eastern Europe, Russia and Central Asia</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>1818 H St, NW, Washington, DC 20433, USA</verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <telephone alsofax="N">(202) 473-1000</telephone>
               <fax>(202) 477-6391</fax>
               <internet>www.worldbank.org/ida</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p id="IO-UN.1953">IDA was established in September 1960 as an affiliate organization to IBRD, together forming the World Bank. It advances capital to the poorer developing member countries on more flexible terms than those offered by IBRD. From 2013 IDA participated in the first World Bank Group Strategy aimed at reducing extreme poverty and promoting shared prosperity by 2030.</p>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1954" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio">
               <heading>Members</heading>
               <p id="IO-UN.1955">IDA has 173 members.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1956" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <heading-note>April 2024</heading-note>
          <p id="IO-UN.1957">Officers and staff of IBRD serve concurrently as officers and staff of IDA.</p>
          <dir-list>
               <dir-entry id="IO-UN.1958" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                    <dir-entry-name>President and Chairman of Executive Directors</dir-entry-name>
                    <person-group>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Ajay</forename>
                                   <surname>Banga</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>USA</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </person-group>
               </dir-entry>
          </dir-list>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1959" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Activities</heading>
          <p>
      IDA assistance is aimed at supporting the poverty reduction strategies of the poorer developing countries, i.e. those with an annual gross national income (GNI) per caput of less than US&#8201;$1,315 in 2023/24. Under IDA lending conditions, credits can be extended to countries whose balance of payments could not sustain the burden of repayment required for 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.1891">IBRD</xr>
       loans. Terms are more favourable than those provided by IBRD; as at 1 January 2024 the maturity of IDA credits for small economies was 40 years, with a grace period of 10 years; for regular economies 38 years with a grace period of six years; and for so-called blend borrowers (which are entitled to borrow from both IDA and IBRD) 30 years with a five-year grace period.
    </p>
          <p>In 2023/24 75 countries were eligible for IDA assistance, including 15 blend borrowers. Exceptions may be made for countries with GNI greater than US&#8201;$1,315, but which would otherwise have little or no access to Bank funds.</p>
          <p usage="ewyb edio sacac fea">By 2024 46 countries had graduated from IDA eligibility; 10 of these, however, had `reverse graduated’.</p>
          <p usage="casee">North Macedonia graduated from eligibility for IDA assistance in 2001/02, Albania, Montenegro and Serbia in 2007/08, and Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2013/14.</p>
          <p usage="eerca">Azerbaijan graduated from eligibility for IDA assistance in 2010/11, Armenia and Georgia in 2013/14, and Moldova in 2019/20.</p>
          <p usage="sasia">Sri Lanka graduated from eligibility for IDA assistance in 2016/17, but `reverse-graduated’ in December 2022.</p>
          <p usage="mena">In 2017 Syria, which had graduated from eligiblity for IDA assistance in 1974, again became a borrowing country.</p>
          <p usage="fea">Mongolia graduated from eligibility for IDA assistance in 2019/20.</p>
          <!--~GNI - check abbreviations list center on conflict, security & devt, nairobi-->
          <p id="IO-UN.1961">IDA's development resources are replenished every three years by contributions from the more affluent member countries, which are supplemented by WBG funding and credit repayments. At the same time partner countries review IDA policies and may determine future strategic priorities. IDA20—being implemented during July 2022-June 2025—was finalized in December 2021, at a meeting hosted by Japan in a virtual format. Donor nations pledged US&#8201;$23,400m., contributing to a replenishment package of $93,000m. The special themes for IDA20—under the broad commitment of `Building Back Better from the Crisis: Towards a Green, Resilient and Inclusive Future’—were climate change; fragility, conflict and violence; gender and development; human capital; and jobs and economic transformation. Debt, technology, governance and institutions and crisis preparedness were identified as priority cross-cutting issues.</p>
          <p usage="edio">In April 2018 IDA issued a five-year bond (its first), raising US&#8201;$1,500m. from investors globally.</p>
          <p>In March 2020 the Boards of Directors of IBRD and IFC approved an emergency US&#8201;$14,000m. package comprising fast-track low-cost loans, grants and technical assistance, to support at-risk developing countries in containing and combating the COVID-19 contagion. Some $6,000m. was to be made available in the near term by IDA and IBRD to support health care activities. In April the WBG, IMF and Group of 20 (G20) leading economies agreed to suspend, for a period of one year from 1 May, the debt service payments of up to 73 eligible developing countries (of which 40 were in Africa); this deadline was subsequently extended to 31 December 2021. On 1 July 2020 the WBG introduced a Sustainable Development Finance Policy for IDA countries, establishing financial incentives for debt and investment transparency.</p>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.IDA.1235" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Financial Operations</heading>
               <p>During the year ending 30 June 2023 new IDA commitments amounted to US&#8201;$34,245m., compared with $37,727m. in the previous year. In 2022/23 $7,921m. (representing some 23.1% of lending) was for projects in the area of public administration; $4,678m. (13.7%) for agriculture, forestry and fishing; $4,075m. (11.9%) for social protection; $3,351m. (9.8%) for energy and extractive sector projects; $2,304m. (6.7%) for industry, trade and services; $2,303m. (6.7%) for transportation; $2,261m. (6.6%) for health projects; $2,247m. (6.6%) for water, sanitation and waste management projects; $2,168m. (6.3%) for education; $1,689m. (4.9%) for information and communications technology initiatives, and $1,247m. (3.6%) for financial sector initiatives.</p>
               <p-alternates default="EWYB" type="ALTERNATES">
                    <p usage="ewyb edio">Of total IDA assistance during 2022/23, US $14,368m. (42.0%) was for Eastern and Southern Africa, $11,390m. (33.2%) for Western and Central Africa, $5,770m. (16.8%) for South Asia, $1,098m. (3.2%) for Europe and Central Asia, $877m. (2.6%) for East Asia and the Pacific, $561m. (1.6%) for the Middle East and North Africa, and $181m. (0.5%) for Latin America and the Caribbean.</p>
                    <p usage="ass ">Of total IDA assistance during 2022/23, US $14,368m. (42.0%) was for Eastern and Southern Africa and $11,390m. (33.2%) for Western and Central Africa.</p>
                    <p usage="sasia">Of total IDA assistance during 2022/23, US $5,770m. (16.8%) was for South Asia.</p>
                    <p usage="eerca">Of total IDA assistance during 2022/23, US $1,098m. (3.2%) for Europe and Central Asia.</p>
                    <p usage="fea">Of total IDA assistance during 2022/23, US $877m. (2.6%) was for East Asia and the Pacific.</p>
                    <p usage="sacac">Of total IDA assistance during 2022/23, US $181m. (0.5%) for Latin America and the Caribbean.</p>
                    <p usage="mena">Of total IDA assistance during 2022/23, US $561m. (1.6%) was for the Middle East and North Africa.</p>
               </p-alternates>
               <p>In July 2017, under IDA18, an IDA-International Finance Corporation (IFC)-Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) Private Sector Window (PSW) was established, which aimed to leverage increased private sector investment in IDA-only countries, in particular in states experiencing Fragility, Conflict and Violence (FCV). The PSW includes a Risk Mitigation Facility, Blended Finance Facility, Local Currency Facility (aimed at reducing currency risk), and a MIGA Guarantee Facility (to expand the coverage of MIGA guarantees); the facilities are implemented by IFC on behalf of IDA.</p>
               <p>Under IDA20 some US $8,800m. (an increase of 17% over IDA19) was allocated to the IDA FCV Envelope, through which top-up assistance is channelled to FCV-affected states. The Envelope comprises a Prevention and Resilience Allocation (PRA—targeted at countries deemed to be at risk of descending into large-scale or high-intensity conflict); a Remaining Engaged during Conflict Allocation (RECA); and a Turn Around Allocation (TAA—supporting the implementation of constructive reforms aimed at building resilience in states that were emerging from conflict or from a debilitating social or political crisis). By 30 June 2023, in the framework of IDA’s FCV Strategy, launched in 2020, 32 risk and resilience assessments had been conducted aimed at identifying drivers of FCV and sources of resilience. Three of the assessments had addressed regions: Central Asia, the Horn of Africa, and Africa’s Lake Chad area.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio eerca sacac ass mena sasia fea">An IDA Window for Host Communities and Refugees (WHR) supports a UN Comprehensive Refugee Response Framework (CRRF), focused on the provision of long-term development solutions for low-income countries hosting significant influxes of refugees, and prioritizing the social and economic inclusion of refugees and the wellbeing of host communities. Under IDA20 up to US&#8201;$2,400m. was to be allocated to the WHR.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio sacac sasia mena ass fea eerca">In December 2011 the Board of Executive Directors approved the establishment of an Immediate Response Mechanism, enabling countries rapidly to access up to 5% of their undisbursed IDA investment project balances in the event of a crisis. IDA’s Crisis Response Window (CRW), established in 2009, aims to strengthen the capacity of IDA-eligible countries to address the impact of exceptionally severe natural and economic shocks, or to react earlier to slower-onset crises, in a structured and expedited manner, without damaging their long-term development paths. Under IDA20 US&#8201;$3,300m. was to be allocated to the CRW. In May 2023 the Board of Executive Directors approved a new IDA Crisis Facility, with two pillars: a Special Program to Enhance the CR, and a Special Program for Ukraine and Moldova Recovery. The IDA’s Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Options (Cat DDOs) provide immediate liquidity to countries affected by natural disasters, as long as they have adequate frameworks for macroeconomic policy disaster risk management. Contingency Emergency Response Components (CERCs) that are embedded in countries’ IDA’s portfolios to enable the expedited release of undisbursed balances.</p>
               <p>An IDA Regional Window that was initiated under IDA19, and was allocated US&#8201;$7,900m. under IDA20, provides top-up funding to boost projects in areas including critical infrastructure; public goods; human capital; the blue economy; and the specific needs of small islands. Some 75% of funding through the Regional Window was to be allocated to Africa (with a special focus on the fragile Horn of Africa, Lake Chad area, and Sahel), and the remaining 25% distributed to other regions. Under IDA20 $6,300m. was allocated to the IDA Scale-Up Window (SUW), with a focus on supporting high quality, transformational development projects; additional short maturity loans were also to be made available within the SUW.</p>
               <p usage="edio ass sasia mena">The WBG’s US&#8201;$500m. Emergency Locust Response Program (ELRP) was approved by the Board of Executive Directors in May 2020 to extend flexible support, in the form of technical assistance, policy advice, and finance, to states in Africa, Middle East and beyond that were affected by or at risk from a recent upsurge in locust swarms. The ELRP has a particular focus on monitoring and controlling locust population growth and preventing the spread of swarms, while mitigating control measure-related risks; restoring the livelihoods of affected households; and building capacity to respond swiftly and efficiently to future outbreaks.</p>
               <p>Through a WBG multi-donor trust fund on nutrition, IDA supports the Power of Nutrition—an initiative launched in April 2015 by the WBG, UNICEF and partner agencies to finance country-led programmes targeting undernutrition, through a combination of public and private contributions.</p>
               <p>
        In April 2015 the WBG and partners made a commitment to achieving universal financial inclusion—access by all adults worldwide to a transaction account. The 2021 edition of the World Bank’s Global Findex Database (measuring financial inclusion) found that 76% of the global adult population was `banked’ in 2021, compared with 69% in 2017, 62% in 2014 and with 51% in 2011. The findings of the Database are summarized in the periodic 
        <publ-name>Little Data Book on Financial Inclusion</publ-name>
        .
      </p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio ass sasia sacac">IDA administers a Trust Fund, which was established in November 1996 as part of a World Bank/International Monetary Fund (IMF) initiative to assist heavily indebted poor countries (HIPCs). IDA’s participation in the so-called Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI) was approved by the Board of Executive Directors in March 2006 and entered into effect on 1 July. (See IBRD for further details on the HIPC initiative and the MDRI.)</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio sasia">
        From 2002 the World Bank channelled funds to support the Afghan people through a dedicated Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF). In August 2021, following the military takeover of Afghanistan by the fundamentalist Taliban organization, the World Bank suspended direct aid to the country’s de facto authorities, while continuing to channel donor support through the Fund, which was renamed as the Afghanistan Resilience Trust Fund (maintaining the same acronym). Under Approach 1.0 of a new so-called `principled approach’ framework, the Bank provided US&#8201;$280m. in emergency ARTF funding to the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.1231">UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF)</xr>
         and the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="SL607803">World Food Programme (WFP)</xr>
         to meet local emergency nutrition and health needs. Under Approach 2.0, initiated in early 2022, $1,300m. in donor finance—outside the control of the Taliban—was allocated through the ARTF to UN and other international agencies on the ground in Afghanistan to ensure the provision of critical basic services at scale, particularly to women and girls, in areas including food security, education, health, water supply and livelihoods. Approach 3.0, adopted by the WBG Executive Board in February 2024, continued to emphasize project implementation by and for women, and had a focus on strengthening income-generating activities, with private sector participation, especially in the area of microfinance. A $1,200m. regional Central Asia-South Asia Electricity Transmission and Trade Project, that includes Afghanistan, was to be resumed. In a policy shift, some $300m. from IDA’s own account was to be allocated directly to UN and other agencies (still bypassing the Taliban), to complement the ongoing ARTF donor funding.
      </p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio mena">
        In December 2023, in view of the catastrophic escalation of Hamas-Israeli conflict from October, the WBG committed funding of US&#8201;$35m. to support the emergency humanitarian operations in Gaza of the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.1231">UNICEF</xr>
        , the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="SL607803">WFP</xr>
        , the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.2442">World Health Organization</xr>
         and other agencies. A $30m. grant to support essential education services to Palestinian children in the West Bank was announced in February 2024.
      </p>
               <p usage="mena">Through a joint Syrians Under Temporary Protection (SUTP) initiative the World Bank and EU support Türkiye in hosting 3.3m. Syrian refugees—representing the highest number of refugees being hosted by any single country globally—through the provision of health, education and socioeconomic assistance for refugees and host communities, and by strengthening municipal infrastructure. The €6,000m. Facility for Refugees in Turkey (FRiT), established in 2015, and jointly led by the World Bank, EU and Turkish Government, had disbursed more than €5,300m. by early 2024. A second FRiT project cycle was ongoing during mid-2021-mid-2025.</p>
               <p usage="edio ass">In August 2023 the WBG suspended all new lending to Uganda, in response to that country’s Government’s anti-LGBT agenda.</p>
               <p usage="edio sacac">In March 2022 a US $102m. Emergency Resilient Agriculture for Food Security Project (`PARSA’) was approved for Haiti, to support some 450,000 people in Centre, Sud, Grand'Anse, and Nippes regions. Additional financing for the project amounting to $50m. was endorsed in March 2023, to extend its reach to a further 120,000 beneficiaries, located in the Nord-Ouest region.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1963" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Publications</heading>
          <publ-list>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>ABCs of IDA</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Annual Report</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
          </publ-list>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.IDA.1970" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio">
          <heading>Statistics</heading>
          <table-block id="IO-UN.1964" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="TABLE-BLOCKREF" type="OTHER" usage="ewyb edio">
               <table-heading>IDA OPERATIONS AND RESOURCES</table-heading>
               <heading-note>years ending 30 June; US $ million</heading-note>
               <table pgwide="Y" style="WITH-RULES">
                    <tgroup cols="6">
                         <colspec colwidth="8cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC2" colwidth="4.00cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC3" colwidth="4.00cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC1" colwidth="4.00cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC5" colwidth="4.00cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC4" colwidth="4.00cm" />
                         <thead>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                2018/19
                <endnoteref idref="WBG.IDA.IO.1" ref-symbol="*" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                2019/20
                <endnoteref idref="WBG.IDA.IO.1" ref-symbol="*" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                2020/21
                <endnoteref idref="WBG.IDA.IO.1" ref-symbol="*" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                2021/22
                <endnoteref idref="WBG.IDA.IO.1" ref-symbol="*" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                2022/23
                <endnoteref idref="WBG.IDA.IO.1" ref-symbol="*" />
                                   </entry>
                              </row>
                         </thead>
                         <tbody>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Commitments</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">21,932</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">30,365</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">36,028</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">37,727</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">34,245</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Disbursements</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">17,549</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">21,179</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">22,921</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">21,214</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">27,718</entry>
                              </row>
                         </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
               </table>
               <endnote id="WBG.IDA.IO.1" ref-symbol="*">Excluding approved funding through IDA-IFC-MIGA PSW instruments—amounting to US&#8201;$393m. in 2018/19, $792m. in 2019/20, $630m. in 2020/21, $638m. in 2021/22, and $1,005m. in 2022/23</endnote>
               <sources>
                    <source-head>Source</source-head>
                    <source-info>
          World Bank, 
          <i>Annual Report 2023</i>
                    </source-info>
               </sources>
          </table-block>
     </int-org-section>
</int-org-entry>