<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="IO-UN.2077" id-root="io-un.2077" iso="io-un.2077" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>International Labour Organization</org-entry-name>
               <abbr>ILO</abbr>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">International Organizations</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">United Nations</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb">United Nations (Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations)</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="edio">International Labour Organization</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>4 route des Morillons, 1211 Geneva 22, Switzerland</verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <telephone alsofax="N">227996111</telephone>
               <fax>227988685</fax>
               <email>ilo@ilo.org</email>
               <internet>www.ilo.org</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p id="IO-UN.2078">The ILO was founded in 1919 to work for social justice as a basis for lasting peace. It carries out this mandate by promoting decent living standards, satisfactory conditions of work and pay and adequate employment opportunities. In addition, it campaigns to eliminate all forms of forced and child labour. In 1946 the ILO became a specialized agency of the UN. It was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1969. The ILO's tripartite structure, unique in the UN system, gives representation to employers' and workers' organizations alongside governments.</p>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2079" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Members</heading>
               <p id="IO-UN.2080">The ILO has 187 members. In March 2022 the Governing Board suspended technical co-operation with the Russian Federation, in view of that country’s military invasion of Ukraine.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2081" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <heading-note>April 2024</heading-note>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2082" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>International Labour Conference</heading>
               <p>The highest deliberative body of the ILO is the International Labour Conference, which meets annually. National delegations to the Conference are composed of two government delegates, one employers' delegate and one workers' delegate. Non-governmental delegates can speak and vote independently of the views of their national government. The Conference elects the Governing Body and adopts International Labour Conventions and Recommendations. The 112th session of the Conference was to be held in June 2024.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2085" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Governing Body</heading>
               <p id="IO-UN.2086">The ILO's Governing Body normally meets three times a year in Geneva to decide policy and programmes (350th session: March 2024). The Governing Body is composed of 28 government members, 14 employers' members and 14 workers' members. Ten of the titular government seats are held permanently by `states of chief industrial importance': Brazil, the People's Republic of China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom and the USA. The remaining 18 are elected from other countries every three years. Employers' and workers' members are elected as individuals, not as national candidates.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2091" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>International Labour Office</heading>
               <p id="IO-UN.2092">The Office is the ILO's secretariat and operational headquarters. Entities reporting directly to the Director-General include the Bureau for Employers' Activities; Bureau for Workers' Activities; Ethics Office; Office of the Legal Adviser; Office of Internal Audit and Oversight; and the Evaluation Office. A Deputy Director-General oversees four Priority Action Programmes: Transition from the informal to the formal economy; Just transitions towards environmentally sustainable economies and societies; Decent work outcomes in supply chains; and Decent work in crisis and post-crisis situations. Each of the following four clusters is overseen by an Assistant Director-General: Governance, Rights and Dialogue; Jobs and Social Protection; External and Corporate Relations; and Corporate Services Research. There are five regional bureaux, covering Africa, the Arab States, Asia and the Pacific, Europe and Central Asia, and Latin America and the Caribbean, which preside over a network of decent work technical support teams and country offices.</p>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="IO-UN.2093" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Director-General</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Gilbert</forename>
                                        <surname>Houngbo</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Togo</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO.UN.ILO.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Administrative Tribunal</heading>
               <p>The Tribunal comprises seven judges, of differing nationalities, who are appointed to a renewable three-year term by the International Labour Conference, on the recommendation of the Governing Body. The Tribunal examines employment-related complaints from nearly 60 international organizations that have recognized its juris­diction. The Tribunal, which is served by a Registry, meets, at ILO headquarters, for two sessions a year.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="ILO-IO.001" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="edio">
               <heading usage="edio">Regional Meetings</heading>
               <p usage="edio">Periodically regional meetings of member states are organized to address specific issues from a regional perspective. The 14th African Regional Meeting, held in December 2019, issued the Abidjan Declaration on Advancing Social Justice: Shaping the future of work in Africa. The 19th American Regional Meeting, held in October 2018, adopted the Panama Declaration for the ILO Centenary: The Future of Work in the Americas. Held in November 2017, in İstanbul, Turkey (now known as Türkiye), the 10th European Regional Meeting adopted the Istanbul Initiative for the Centenary: Future for Decent Work for strong and responsible social partnership in Europe and Central Asia. The 17th Asia and the Pacific Regional Meeting, convened in December 2022, in Singapore, issued a Singapore Statement, which emphasized the need to secure social justice and decent work for all.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2094" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="edio">
               <heading>Regional Offices</heading>
               <org-list>
                    <org-entry id="IO-UN.2095" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Africa</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Plateau, CCIA Bldg, Abidjan 3680, Côte d’Ivoire</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">20-31-89-00</telephone>
                              <fax>20-21-28-80</fax>
                              <email>abidjan@ilo.org</email>
                              <internet>www.ilo.org/africa</internet>
                         </address-block>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-UN.2097" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Arab States</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>POB 11-4088, Riad Solh 1107-2150, Beirut, Lebanon</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(1) 752400</telephone>
                              <fax>(1) 752405</fax>
                              <email>beirut@ilo.org</email>
                              <internet>www.ilo.org/beirut</internet>
                         </address-block>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-UN.2098" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Asia and the Pacific</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>POB 2-349, Bangkok 10200, Thailand</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 881234</telephone>
                              <fax>(2) 801735</fax>
                              <email>bangkok@ilo.org</email>
                         </address-block>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-UN.2099" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <data-protection date-added="29.02.2008" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Europe and Central Asia</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>4 route des Morillons, 1211 Geneva 22, Switzerland</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">227996666</telephone>
                              <fax>227996061</fax>
                              <email>europe@ilo.org</email>
                              <internet>www.ilo.org/europe</internet>
                         </address-block>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-UN.2096" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Latin America and the Caribbean</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Las Flores 275, Lima, Peru</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(1) 6150300</telephone>
                              <email>lima@ilo.org</email>
                              <internet>www.ilo.org/americas</internet>
                         </address-block>
                    </org-entry>
               </org-list>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2100" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Activities</heading>
          <p-group>
               <heading>ILO Strategic Vision 2025</heading>
               <p>The ILO’s strategic plan for 2022-25 was focused on achieving the ILO Strategic Vision 2025, which envisaged that by 2025 the ILO would have acted decisively to implement the terms of the 2019 Centenary Declaration; met its responsibility to lead national and international action for a human-centred recovery from the ongoing world of work crisis; fully deployed its permanent comparative advantages of clear, up-to-date effectively supervised international labour standards and tripartism; reinforced its activities to support the most vulnerable in the world of work—with a particular focus on a transformative agenda for gender equality and the informal economy; addressed the urgent deficits exposed by the pandemic with respect to occupational safety, health, and social protection; continued to strengthen its governance mechanisms and capacity to deliver high-quality services; enhanced its standing as the global centre of excellence; mobilized and used budgetary resources to maximize impact; and further improved organizational performance.</p>
          </p-group>
          <p-group>
               <heading>Decent Work Agenda</heading>
               <p>The ILO pursues the goal of `Decent Work’ and promotes a Decent Work Agenda (adopted in 1999), which has four basic `pillars’: employment creation, as the principal route out of poverty; rights at work, which empower men and women to escape from poverty; social protection, which safeguards against poverty; and tripartism and social dialogue, regarding the participation of employers’ and workers’ organizations as of key importance in shaping government policy for poverty reduction. Gender equality is a cross-cutting objective. These four pillars have been incorporated into the UN’s 2030 Agenda, and through its Decent Work Agenda the ILO supports the pursuit of UN Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work. In September 2023 the ILO reported that nearly two-thirds of SDG 8 indicators were not on track to be achieved globally by 2030.</p>
          </p-group>
          <p-group>
               <heading>Flagship Programmes</heading>
               <p>The ILO operates five flagship programmes: the International Programme on the Elimination of Child Labour and Forced Labour (IPEC+); Global Action for Prevention on Occupational Safety and Health (OSH-GAP); Social Protection Floors for All; Jobs for Peace and Resilience (which has a focus on jobs generation—particularly for youth—in countries affected by conflict or natural disasters); and Better Work (which aims to improve working conditions and competitiveness in the global garment and footwear industries).</p>
          </p-group>
          <p-group>
               <heading>Centenary Declaration</heading>
               <p>In June 2019 the 108th session of the International Labour Conference issued the ILO Centenary Declaration for the Future of Work, 2019, which set out a roadmap to guide a human-centred future for work, with a focus on promoting policies that facilitate decent work, on the digital transformation of work, and on ensuring an adequate minimum wage, social protection, maximum limits on working hours, respect for workers’ fundamental rights, protection of workers’ privacy and personal data, and workers’ safety and protection.</p>
          </p-group>
          <p-group>
               <heading>COVID-19 Pandemic Recovery</heading>
               <p>
        In January 2021 the ILO estimated that global working hours equivalent to 255m. full time jobs had been lost during 2020, with related lost income amounting to some US&#8201;$3,700,000m. The agency recommended that policy measures should be tailored to extend support to women, youth, low-paid and low-skilled workers, and other more vulnerable groups. In June 2021 the 109th session of the International Labour Conference unanimously endorsed a Global Call to Action for a Human-Centred Recovery, detailing a comprehensive agenda for advancing from the pandemic crisis that prioritized social protection measures and decent jobs for all. In September, at the UN General Assembly, the UN Secretary-General and the ILO launched a Global Accelerator for Jobs and Social Protection to leverage and direct financing towards a human-centred post-pandemic recovery (with the aim of generating at least 400m. decent jobs—mainly in the green, digital and care sectors—while expanding social protections). The ILO, WHO and partners established a Joint Action Group in December that was to assess the impact of the pandemic on the transport sector and global supply chains. The ILO convened a Global Forum for a Human-Centred Recovery, in February 2022, Geneva. In January 2023 the Joint Action Group issued recommendations aimed at protecting transport workers during any future health emergency. In May the 11th edition of the 
        <publ-name>ILO Monitor on the World of Work</publ-name>
         (an analytical series launched in March 2020) noted that mutually reinforcing ongoing crises, including mounting levels of debt, were disproportionately impacting developing states. The ILO’s 
        <publ-name>World Employment and Social Outlook: Trends 2024</publ-name>
        , released in March of that year, reported that, while post-pandemic labour markets had demonstrated significant resilience, recovery remained uneven. The overall average rate of unemployment stood at 4.5% across high-income countries in 2023, and at 5.7% across low-income countries. Income equality was reported to have widened. In most G20 member states disposable incomes had declined, and, globally, the number of workers living in extreme poverty (i.e. earning less than US&#8201;$2.15 per person per day, in purchasing power parity terms) expanded by about 1m. during 2023.
      </p>
          </p-group>
          <!--Better Work only active in 7 countries at Jan. 2017-->
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2102" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Standards and Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work</heading>
               <p>One of the ILO's primary functions is the adoption and supervision of conventions and recommendations setting minimum labour standards, ranging over a wide field of social and labour dimensions. Through ratification by member states, conventions create binding obligations to put their provisions into effect. Recommendations provide guidance as to policy and practice. By March 2024 the ILO had adopted a total of 191 conventions (of which around four-fifths were in force, and one-half of those up-to-date and regarded as suitable for priority promotion); six protocols; and 208 recommendations (of which some two-thirds were in effect). Together they form the International Labour Code. The independent 20-member ILO Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations (CEACR) meets annually to assess the application of international labour standards.</p>
               <p>In June 1998 the Conference adopted a Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, establishing as fundamental labour principles and rights: freedom of association; the abolition of forced labour; the abolition of child labour; and the elimination of discrimination in employment promotion, training and the protection of workers. In June 2022 the 110th session of the International Labour Conference approved a resolution that amended the Declaration to include as the fifth fundamental principle and right: a safe and healthy working environment. All member states are obliged to observe these standards, whether or not they have ratified the corresponding international conventions. The following 11 ILO fundamental instruments have been identified by the Governing Body as being core to the rights of people at work, irrespective of the levels of development of individual member states: Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention (No. 87); Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention (No. 98); Forced Labour Convention (No. 29), and its Protocol; Abolition of Forced Labour Convention (No. 105); Equal Remuneration Convention (No. 100); Discrimination (Employment and Occupation) Convention (No. 111); Minimum Age Convention (No. 138); Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention (No. 182); Occupational Safety and Health Convention (No. 155; upgraded in June 2022 to the status of fundamental instrument); and the Promotional Framework for Occupational Safety and Health Convention (No. 200; also upgraded in June 2022). By March 2024 20 countries had ratified all of the fundamental instruments.</p>
               <p usage="edio">Since 2008 the following four conventions have been designated as priority `governance conventions’ (i.e. having particular significance from the perspective of governance): the Labour Inspection Convention (No. 81); Employment Policy Convention (No. 122); Labour Inspection (Agriculture) Convention (No. 129); and the Tripartite Consultation (International Labour Standards) Convention (No. 144).</p>
               <p>In June 2019 the ILO Conference endorsed a new Convention on Violence and Harassment in the World of Work (No. 190). This aimed to combat work-related practices, behaviours or threats that `aim at, result in, or are likely to result in physical, psychological, sexual or economic harm’. A related non-binding labour standard aimed to protect all workers, irrespective of their contractual status, therefore its scope included apprentices, trainees, interns, volunteers, job applicants, and workers whose employment had been terminated.</p>
               <p>
        The ILO, working closely with UNICEF, encourages member states to ratify and to implement relevant international standards on child labour. The Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention, which was adopted by the 87th session of the International Labour Conference in June 1999 and entered into force in November 2000, achieved universal ratification by all 187 ILO member states in August 2020. The ILO's flagship IPEC+ programme aims, within the context of the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UNDP.001">UN’s 2030 Agenda</xr>
        , to establish and promote policy and action aimed at eliminating all forms of child labour by 2025, and also ending systems of forced labour and human trafficking by 2030. In September 2016 the ILO and USA-based Ford Foundation launched a Global Alliance to Eradicate Forced Labour, Modern Slavery, Human Trafficking and Child Labour (Alliance 8.7), which aimed to achieve Target 8.7 of the UN SDGs: to take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and human trafficking and secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labour, including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 to end child labour in all its forms. By 2024 26 so-called pathfinder countries and 375 other partners were participating in Alliance 8.7. The fifth Global Conference on the Elimination of Child Labour, convened in Durban, South Africa, in May 2022, adopted the Durban Call to Action to End Child Labour, incorporating commitments to advance relevant multi-stakeholder efforts; use data-driven and survivor-informed policy and programmatic responses to strengthen the prevention and elimination of child labour, forced labour, modern slavery and trafficking in persons; end child labour in agriculture; realize children’s right to education; achieve universal access to social protection; and enhance financing and international collaboration on eliminating child and forced labour. A joint ILO-UNICEF report issued in that month observed that social protection mechanisms—by reducing family vulnerability and poverty—alleviate the causes of child labour.
      </p>
               <p usage="edio">The ILO-sponsored World Day against Child Labour is held annually on 12 June. In January 2021 the ILO launched the International Year for the Elimination of Child Labour, which had been designated in July 2019 by the UN General Assembly.</p>
               <p>
        In June 2014 the 103rd session of the International Labour Conference adopted a legally binding Protocol to the ILO Forced Labour Convention (No. 29), and accompanying Recommendation, that aimed to update the Convention, including with regard to combating human trafficking, and to address implementation gaps in the areas of prevention, protection and compensation. In June 2017 the ILO announced the establishment of a Global Business Network on Forced Labour and Human Trafficking. The Network was to facilitate information sharing to mitigate the risk of human trafficking and forced labour in business operations and supply chains. The ILO launched a Forced Labour Observatory in December 2022, providing up-to-date information on, 
        <i>inter alia,</i>
         national legal and policy frameworks, access to justice, protection, and the ratification of relevant international instruments. In March 2024 the ILO released 
        <publ-name>Profits and Poverty: The economics of forced labour</publ-name>
        , which estimated that, globally, illegal profits from forced labour had grown by 37% since 2014, driven by an expansion of the numbers of such works, and by higher profits generated from their exploitation. The highest annual illegal profits were found to occur in Europe and Central Asia. Forced commercial sexual exploitation accounted for 27% of the victims of forced labour, and for 73% of overall profits.
      </p>
               <p>In June 2023 the ILO initiated a five-step strategy aimed at achieving decent work conditions for domestic workers—some 81% of whom were reported by ILO to have been informally employed during 2021.</p>
               <p>
        In March 2022 the Governing Body established a Commission of Inquiry to address non-observance by Myanmar’s military regime of (fundamental) Conventions No. 29 and No. 87 (on forced labour, and on freedom of association and the right to organize). In June 2023 the 111th session of the International Labour Conference adopted a resolution that addressed measures to secure compliance by the Belarusian authorities with ILO recommendations. Also in June, the ILO&#160;and global trade union federation 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="ICFTU.IO.97">IndustriALL</xr>
         issued a joint briefing paper that reiterated grave concerns over Russia’s imposition of forced labour conditions and use of coercion (to join Russia-based trade unions) on workers at the Russian-occupied Zaporizhzhya nuclear power plant (in southeastern Ukraine). A four-year technical co-operation programme was concluded with Qatar in March 2024, aimed at strengthening key labour market institutions.
      </p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2106" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Employment Promotion</heading>
               <p>The ILO aims to monitor, examine and report on the situation and trends in employment throughout the world, and considers the effects on employment and social justice of economic trade, investment and related phenomena. In June 2008, as the outcome of tripartite consultations based on the work of the World Commission on the Social Dimension of Globalization (established in 2002) and its final report, the 97th session of the International Labour Conference adopted an ILO Declaration on Social Justice for a Fair Globalization, building on the Philadelphia Declaration (1944) and the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (1998). The Declaration placed the Decent Work Agenda at the core of ILO activities.</p>
               <p>The ILO’s Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy (adopted in 1977 and subsequently updated, including in March 2017) provides international guidelines, agreed by governments and employers' and workers' organizations, on investment policy and labour practices. The ILO operates a Helpdesk for Business on International Labour Standards, to assist corporations to apply the Declaration and other international instruments for socially responsible corporate activities (such as the UN Global Compact).</p>
               <p>In January 2022 the ILO launched a Trade Agreements Hub, collating labour provisions contained within trade agreements. It was reported at that time that around one-half of trade agreements concluded during 2011-20 included labour provisions, representing an upwards trend.</p>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Transition to the Formal Economy</heading>
                    <p>In June 2015 the 104th session of the International Labour Conference endorsed a new Recommendation on Transition from the Informal to the Formal Economy, which outlined strategies and guidance to formalize the situations of workers and businesses operating in the informal economy. In March 2024 ILO reported that 58% of the world’s employed population were paid through informal structures (particularly prevalent in the agricultural sector), i.e. with limited or reduced social protection or acceptable conditions of employment. Policy guidelines for the promotion of decent work in the agrifood sector, based on the ILO’s Decent Work Agenda and relevant instruments, were adopted in May 2023 by a meeting of experts convened in Geneva under ILO auspices.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Skills, Knowledge and Employability</heading>
                    <p>The ILO's programme sector on skills, knowledge and employability supports governments in structuring policies for improved investment in learning and training for enhanced employability, productivity and social inclusion. The programme focuses on promoting access to training and decent work for specific groups, such as youths, the disabled, and workers in the informal economy, and on protecting the rights of the elderly. The Enterprises Department promotes policies, legal frameworks, management strategies, training, and local development programmes aimed at fostering a successful business environment. It incorporates specific programmes to promote the development of micro and small enterprises, women’s entrepreneurship and supporting conducive environments for sustainable enterprise.</p>
                    <p>The ILO promotes regulated quality apprenticeships, to facilitate the transition of young people from education into the labour market and also as a means for older workers to re- and up-skill. In June 2023 the 111th session of the International Labour Conference adopted a new Recommendation on Quality Apprenticeships, which clearly defined apprenticeships, set related aspirational standards, and emphasized the need to strengthen opportunities for people of all ages to skill, reskill and upskill.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Digital Labour Platforms</heading>
                    <p>
          ILO’s 
          <publ-name>World Employment and Social Outlook 2021: The role of digital labour platforms in transforming the world of work,</publ-name>
           published in February, issued recommendations aimed at ensuring that internet-based online work platforms—which had expanded five-fold over the previous decade—should provide decent work opportunities.
        </p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Gender Equality and Youth</heading>
                    <p>With UN Women and the OECD, the ILO leads the Equal Pay International Coalition, which was initiated in September 2017 to support the achievement, by 2030, of SDG Target 8.5: Full Employment and Decent Work with Equal Pay.</p>
                    <p>In March 2022 the ILO estimated that almost 300m. jobs might be generated by 2035 through closing gaps in care provision that leave many workers with family responsibilities without adequate support. The ILO and UN-Women reported in that month that—reversing a previous upwards trend in female labour market participation—during 2020 the number of mothers with partners and at least one child under the age of six had declined, owing to pressures caused by the COVID-19 pandemic (including job losses in female-dominated sectors and coping with school closures).</p>
                    <p>The ILO’s Global Initiative on Decent Jobs for Youth, launched in February 2016, includes a Digital Skills for Youth component. In August 2019 the ILO organized a Global Youth Employment Forum, in Abuja, Nigeria, with a focus on means of achieving youth employment-related objectives of the SDGs.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Green Jobs and Climate Action</heading>
                    <p>The ILO’s Green Jobs programme promotes decent work in the context of resource efficient, low carbon green economies, with a focus on knowledge creation, training, policy advice, advocacy and partnership building, identifying economic sectors with high potential for green job creation, and implementing pilot projects that promote green entrepreneurship. In December 2019 the ILO Director-General launched a Climate Action for Jobs Initiative, which aimed to support the implementation of national climate action commitments, while placing sustainable human-centred policies to promote decent work for all as a central focus of climate responses. ILO, with UNEP, the UN Industrial Development Organization and the UN Institute for Training and Research, participates in the Partnership for Action on Green Economy, which aimed, during 2021-30, to support selected countries in developing green economy strategies in order to generate employment, strengthen livelihoods, enhance environmental stewardship, and ensure sustained growth aligned with the SDGs, the Paris Agreement on climate change and the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework. In June 2023 the 111th International Labour Conference endorsed ILO Guidelines for a just transition towards environmentally sustainable economies and societies as the central reference for policy making.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2110" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Social Protection</heading>
               <p>
        Access to an adequate level of social protection is recognized in the ILO's 1944 Declaration of Philadelphia, as well as in a number of international labour standards, as a basic right of all individuals. A landmark Recommendation on a Social Protection Floor for All was adopted by the 101st session of the International Labour Conference in June 2012; this promotes lifelong basic income security and essential healthcare guarantees. In September 2016 the ILO and the World Bank established a Global Partnership for Universal Social Protection to Achieve the SDGs (USP2030). In February 2019 the Global Partnership organized a conference themed `Together to Achieve Universal Social Protection by 2030’ to promote the USP2030. Through its flagship Programme on Social Protection Floors for All the ILO aims to enable countries to extend social protection to some 5,000m. people globally without, or with only a partial social safety net. Activities focus on the following dimensions of work-based security: the labour market (the provision of adequate employment opportunities); employment (for example, protection against dismissal); occupational security (the opportunity to develop a career); work (protection against accidents, illness and stress at work); skills; income; and representation (the right to collective representation in the labour market, through independent trade unions and employers' associations, etc.). The ILO assists member states and constituents in the design, reform and implementation of social security policies based on the principles embodied in international labour standards, with a special focus on developing strategies to extend social security coverage. ILO’s Public Finance, Actuarial and Statistics unit supports government agencies and independent social protection entities in improving the planning and management and governance of social security schemes. ILO’s 
        <publ-name>World Social Protection Report 2020-22: Social protection at the crossroads—in pursuit of a better future</publ-name>
        , issued in September 2021, found that—despite an unprecedented emphasis on social protection since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic—only 47% of people worldwide were covered by at least one social protection benefit, while 53% (4,100m. people) had no social protection at all. In Europe and Central Asia 84% of the population were reported to be covered by at least one social benefit, followed by the Americas (64%), Asia and the Pacific (44%), Arab states (40%), and Africa (17%). Meanwhile, some 77.5% of people of retirement age (but far lower proportionately in many developing countries, and fewer women than men) were receiving some form of pension. Expenditure on social protection varied from an average of 16.4% in high-income countries to 1.1% in low-income countries. ILO, UNICEF, UNDP, and WHO co-chair the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="UNIBC.IO.1">UN Issue-Based Coalition on Social Protection,</xr>
         which serves as a platform for advocacy, policy advice and exchange of information on the creation of sustainable, holistic and integrated social protection systems.
      </p>
               <p>In March 2024 the 350th session of the ILO’s Governing Body endorsed arrangements for the establishment of a Working Party on the New Social Contract for Our Common Agenda, which was to prepare input from the organization’s tripartite membership for the Second World Summit for Social Development (`World Social Summit’), scheduled to be organized during 2025. At that time the Governing Body also reached agreement on means (including evidence-based methodologies and consultations with workers’ and employers’ organizations) of estimating a living wage—i.e. a wage level that enables a decent standard of living.</p>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Occupational Safety and Health</heading>
                    <p>The 1981 (and since 2022 `fundamental’) Occupational Safety and Health Convention supports relevant coherent national policymaking, while its (also fundamental) 2002 Protocol provides for periodic reviews of processes for recording and notifying occupational accidents and diseases. The ILO’s flagship Global Action for Prevention on Occupational Safety and Health (OSH-GAP) programme aims to enhance the health and safety of workers in SMEs. The organization works to protect workers in hazardous occupations; to provide protection to vulnerable groups of workers outside the scope of normal protection measures; to improve the capacity of governments and employers' and workers' organizations to address workers' wellbeing, extend the scope of occupational health care etc.; to address work-related psychosocial risks and stress; and to ensure that policymakers recognize and document the social and economic impact of implementing measures that enhance workers' protection. An updated ILO list of occupational diseases was adopted by the Governing Body in March 2010; this aimed to assist member countries with the prevention, recording, notification and, where applicable, compensation of illnesses caused by work. The ILO supported the inaugural Industrial Safety Forum, which took place in May 2022, in Dhaka, Bangladesh. A global database on occupational safety and health legislation, LEGOSH, is maintained.</p>
                    <p>In June 2022 the Conference adopted the first guidelines for handling biological hazards in places of work. In November 2023 ILO and the World Health Organization estimated that nearly one-third of deaths from non-melanoma skin cancer were attributable to occupational exposure to solar ultraviolet radiation while working outdoors, and called for preventative action.</p>
                    <p usage="edio">A UN High-Level Commission on Health Employment and Economic Growth, with ILO participation, was established in March 2016 to address the need for an increase by 2030 in numbers of global health workers.</p>
                    <p> In 2010 the ILO launched the ILO Global Business and Disability Network, a global knowledge sharing platform, which was aimed at promoting the inclusion of people with disabilities in the workplace. ILO initiated a Disability Labour Market Indicators database in June 2022.</p>
                    <p usage="edio">The ILO is a co-sponsor of the Joint UN Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), and HIV/AIDS in the workplace is addressed in the Decent Work Agenda. In June 2010 the International Labour Conference adopted a new international labour standard on HIV/AIDS, representing the first international human rights instrument related to HIV/AIDS and employment, and in July 2011 an ILO Code of Practice on HIV/AIDS and the World of Work was issued. An ILO Global HIV Discrimination in the World of Work survey, published in December 2021, was compiled by the ILO and Gallup agency with a view to establishing an empirical foundation for future informed action by employers’ and workers’ organizations and governments.</p>
                    <p>The ILO sponsors the World Day for Safety and Health at Work, held annually on 28 April, to promote the prevention of occupational accidents and diseases globally.</p>
                    <p>In June 2023 the 111th Conference adopted a Safe and Healthy Working Environment (Consequential Amendments) Convention, and a Recommendation, that both addressed the partial revision of 15 international labour instruments on the basis of the elevation to a fundamental principle and right (in June 2022) of the right to a safe and healthy working environment.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Working from Home</heading>
                    <p>The ILO advocates for better conditions, social protection, access to training opportunities, and (where relevant) piece or task payment rates for homeworkers. The organization categorizes three types of homeworker: industrial homeworkers engaged in (frequently the final stages of) production of manufactured goods, such as artisanal products; teleworkers, who perform general work tasks remotely from home by technological means; and home-based digital platform workers—engaged with, for example, social media or website operations. By March 2024 only 13 ILO member states had ratified Convention No. 177, promoting equality of treatment between homeworkers and other wage earners. In January 2021 the ILO reported that in 2019 11.5% of the global female labour force and 5.6% of male workers were homeworkers. Of the total, some 90% of homeworkers in low- and middle-income countries were reported to be working informally. The ILO promotes a `right to disconnect’, to ensure respect for the boundaries between work and private life.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Labour Migration</heading>
                    <p>
          In the context of its Fair Migration Agenda the ILO aims to make labour migration a choice rather than a necessity (by supporting the creation of decent work opportunities in countries of origin); to ensure the fair recruitment and equal treatment of migrant workers; to protect the rights, and promote the integration, of migrant workers; and to promote bilateral agreements between member states aimed at regulating international migration fairly, as well as the formulation of fair migration schemes within regional integration processes. In October 2020 the ILO and International Organization for Migration (IOM) adopted an agreement on developing a framework for collaboration in the governance of migration and in enhancing the benefits of migration for all. In June 2021 the ILO published 
          <publ-name>ILO Global Estimates on Migrant Workers</publ-name>
          , which estim­ated that two-thirds of the 169m. migrant workers worldwide in 2019 lived in high-income countries; 37.7% of the total number of migrant workers were reported to be in Europe or Central Asia, and 25.6% in the Americas. An ILO Guidance Note on wage-related challenges for migrant workers (such as delayed or non-payment of wages) was issued in April 2023.
        </p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Indigenous Peoples</heading>
                    <p>
          A report that was issued in February 2020 on the implementation of the ILO’s Indigenous and Tribal People’s Convention (Convention No. 169, adopted in 1989), found that there was an urgent need to address disproportionate levels of poverty and inequalities experienced by Indigenous peoples—who were found to represent 6% of the global population and yet to account for nearly 19% of people globally living in extreme poverty (i.e. surviving on less than US&#8201;$1.90 per day), although around 80% were living in middle-income economies. The report noted the widespread absence of legal and institutional frameworks to enable the participation of indigenous peoples in decision making, and found that some 86% of indigenous citizens were working in informal economic sectors. The ILO urged enhanced support for Convention 
          
          No. 169, which by March 2024 had only received 24 ratifications.
        </p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2114" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Social Dialogue</heading>
               <p>The ILO recognizes that the enactment of labour laws, and ensuring their effective enforcement, collective bargaining and other forms of co-operation are important means of promoting social justice. Through its Governance and Tripartism Department, it aims to assist governments and employers' and workers' organizations to establish sound labour relations, to adapt labour laws to meet changing economic and social needs, and to improve labour administration. A Social Dialogue and Tripartism unit promotes social dialogue, sound industrial relations and the adoption or reform of labour law, in accordance with international labour standards. It also maintains various databases of employment legislations, and a series of National Labour Law Profiles. The ILO provides the secretariat of the International Labour and Employment Relations Association, with which it works closely to promote research and disseminate knowledge relating to industrial relations. In June 2023, during the 111th session of the International Labour Conference, the ILO organized a World of Work Summit that addressed the theme `Social Justice for All’. In November the ILO Governing Body launched a Global Coalition for Social Justice, focused on integrating, systematically, a social agenda into international, regional and national policy making.</p>
               <p>The Better Work initiative, jointly undertaken with the International Finance Corporation, aims to improve the working conditions of an estimated 60m. people employed in the garment industry worldwide. Aspects of the programme include promoting industrial relations and stakeholder partnerships in order to improve compliance with labour laws and standards. Better Work pilot projects have been initiated in Jordan, Lesotho and Viet Nam.</p>
               <p>A Committee on Freedom of Association examines allegations of abuses committed against trade union organizations and reports to the Governing Body. Reports of failure to implement the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organize Convention, 1948 (No. 87) are considered by the International Labour Conference. In November 2023 the ILO Director-General requested an advisory opinion from the International Court of Justice with regard to interpretation of Convention No. 87 and workers’ right to strike. The ILO’s Governing Body, meeting earlier in that month, had recognized `serious and persistent disagreement’ among the ILO’s tripartite constituents on the issue.</p>
               <p>In May 2023 an ILO Future of Work podcast addressed the controversial rising use of artificial intelligence-based tools in employment recruitment processes.</p>
               <!-- www.ituc-csi.org/qatar-buys-time-at-the-ilo ILOSTAT - Nov. 2019 Gaza - jobs lost - MENA-->
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2116" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Training Centre</heading>
               <org-list>
                    <org-entry id="IO-UN.2123" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>International Training Centre of the ILO (ITC-ILO)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Viale Maestri del Lavoro 10, 10127 Turin, Italy</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(011) 693-6111</telephone>
                              <email>communications@itcilo.org</email>
                              <internet>www.itcilo.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1964 by the ILO to offer advanced training facilities for managers, trainers and social partners, and technical specialists from ILO mem. states; became operational in 1965</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the Centre has been increasingly used by its partners to provide training for improving the management of devt and for building national capacities to sustain devt programmes</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">through training and learning the ITC-ILO develops human resources and institutional capacity in pursuit of the ILO’s goal of decent work for men and women</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">offers standard, self-paced and Masters courses</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Exec. Dir</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Christophe</forename>
                                        <surname>Perrin</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>France</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
               </org-list>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2125" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Finance</heading>
          <p id="IO-UN.2126">The proposed regular budget for the two years 2024-25 was US&#8201;$879.8m., while extrabudgetary expenditure of $600m. was envisaged.</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2127" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Publications</heading>
          <heading-note>in English, French and Spanish unless otherwise indicated</heading-note>
          <publ-list>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Global Estimates of Child Labour</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Global Estimates of Modern Slavery</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Global Wage Report</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">every 2 years</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>ILO Monitor on the World of Work</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>International Journal of Labour Research</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>International Labour Review</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">quarterly</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>International Social Security Review</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Social Dialogue Report</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>World Employment and Social Outlook</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>World Labour Report</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">every 2 years</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>World of Work</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">annually</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>World Social Protection Report</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
          </publ-list>
          <p id="IO-UN.2128">Other reports, international studies, surveys, manuals. Also maintains a central statistical portal ILOSTAT, and online databases including on international labour standards (NORMLEX), national labour, social security and human rights legislation (NATLEX), and on employment protection legislation (EPLex).</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="ILO.EDIO.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="edio">
          <heading>Declaration concerning the aims and purpose of the International Labour Organization (Philadelphia Declaration)</heading>
          <heading-note>10 May 1944</heading-note>
          <legal-block>
               <gen-list>
                    <label>I.</label>
                    <item>
                         <p id="ILO.EDIO.2">The Conference reaffirms the fundamental principles on which the Organization is based and, in particular, that:</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>(a)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="ILO.EDIO.2.1">labour is not a commodity;</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(b)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="ILO.EDIO.2.2">freedom of expression and of association are essential to sustained progress;</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(c)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="ILO.EDIO.2.3">poverty anywhere constitutes a danger to prosperity everywhere;</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(d)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="ILO.EDIO.2.4">the war against want requires to be carried on with unrelenting vigour within each nation, and by continuous and concerted international effort in which the representatives of workers and employers, enjoying equal status with those of governments, join with them in free discussion and democratic decision with a view to the promotion of the common welfare.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </item>
                    <label>II.</label>
                    <item>
                         <p id="ILO.EDIO.3">Believing that experience has fully demonstrated the truth of the statement in the Constitution of the International Labour Organization that lasting peace can be established only if it is based on social justice, the Conference affirms that:</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>(a)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="ILO.EDIO.3.1">all human beings, irrespective of race, creed or sex, have the right to pursue both their material well-being and their spiritual development in conditions of freedom and dignity, of economic security and equal opportunity;</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(b)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="ILO.EDIO.3.2">the attainment of the conditions in which this shall be possible must constitute the central aim of national and international policy;</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(c)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="ILO.EDIO.3.3">all national and international policies and measures, in particular those of an economic and financial character, should be judged in this light and accepted only in so far as they may be held to promote and not to hinder the achievement of this fundamental objective;</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(d)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="ILO.EDIO.3.4">it is a responsibility of the International Labour Organization to examine and consider all international economic and financial policies and measures in the light of this fundamental objective;</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(e)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="ILO.EDIO.3.5">in discharging the tasks entrusted to it the International Labour Organization, having considered all relevant economic and financial factors, may include in its decisions and recommendations any provisions which it considers appropriate.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </item>
                    <label>III.</label>
                    <item>
                         <p id="ILO.EDIO.4">The Conference recognizes the solemn obligation of the International Labour Organization to further among the nations of the world programmes which will achieve:</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>(a)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="ILO.EDIO.4.1">full employment and the raising of standards of living;</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(b)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="ILO.EDIO.4.2">the employment of workers in the occupations in which they can have the satisfaction of giving the fullest measure of their skill and attainments and make their greatest contribution to the common well-being;</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(c)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="ILO.EDIO.4.3">the provision, as a means to the attainment of this end and under adequate guarantees for all concerned, of facilities for training and the transfer of labour, including migration for employment and settlement;</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(d)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="ILO.EDIO.4.4">policies in regard to wages and earnings, hours and other conditions of work calculated to ensure a just share of the fruits of progress to all, and a minimum living wage to all employed and in need of such protection;</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(e)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="ILO.EDIO.4.5">the effective recognition of the right of collective bargaining, the co-operation of management and labour in the continuous improvement of productive efficiency, and the collaboration of workers and employers in the preparation and application of social and economic measures;</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(f)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="ILO.EDIO.4.6">the extension of social security measures to provide a basic income to all in need of such protection and comprehensive medical care;</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(g)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="ILO.EDIO.4.7">adequate protection for the life and health of workers in all occupations;</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(h)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="ILO.EDIO.4.8">provision for child welfare and maternity protection;</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(i)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="ILO.EDIO.4.9">the provision of adequate nutrition, housing and facilities for recreation and culture;</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(j)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="ILO.EDIO.4.10">the assurance of equality of educational and vocational opportunity.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </item>
                    <label>IV.</label>
                    <item>
                         <p id="ILO.EDIO.5">Confident that the fuller and broader utilization of the world's productive resources necessary for the achievement of the objectives set forth in this Declaration can be secured by effective international and national action, including measures to expand production and consumption, to avoid severe economic fluctuations to promote the economic and social advancement of the less developed regions of the world, to assure greater stability in world prices of primary products, and to promote a high and steady volume of international trade, the Conference pledges the full co-operation of the International Labour Organization with such international bodies as may be entrusted with a share of the responsibility for this great task and for the promotion of the health, education and well-being of all peoples.</p>
                    </item>
                    <label>V.</label>
                    <item>
                         <p id="ILO.EDIO.6">The conference affirms that the principles set forth in this Declaration are fully applicable to all peoples everywhere and that, while the manner of their application must be determined with due regard to the stage of social and economic development reached by each people, their progressive application to peoples who are still dependent, as well as to those who have already achieved self-government, is a matter of concern to the whole civilized world.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
          </legal-block>
     </int-org-section>
</int-org-entry>