<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="IO-UN.2129" id-root="io-un.2129" iso="io-un.2129" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>International Maritime Organization</org-entry-name>
               <abbr>IMO</abbr>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">International Organizations</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">United Nations</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb">United Nations (Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations)</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="edio">International Maritime Organization</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>4 Albert Embankment, London, SE1 7SR, United Kingdom</verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <telephone alsofax="N">(20) 7735-7611</telephone>
               <fax>(20) 7587-3210</fax>
               <email>info@imo.org</email>
               <internet>www.imo.org</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p id="IO-UN.2130">
      IMO began operations as the Inter-Governmental Maritime Consultative Organization (IMCO) in 1959, a specialized agency of the UN mandated to facilitate co-operation among governments on technical matters affecting international shipping. IMCO became IMO in 1982. Its main functions are the achievement, through co-operation in the adoption and application of global standards, of safe, secure, environmentally sound, sustainable and efficient navigation. The organization contributed to the formulation of the 1982 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="UNCLOS.IO.1">UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS)</xr>
      , which references IMO’s areas of competence.
    </p>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2131" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Members</heading>
               <p id="IO-UN.2132">IMO has 175 members and three associate members.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2133" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <heading-note>April 2024</heading-note>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2134" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Assembly</heading>
               <p>The Assembly consists of delegates from all member countries, who each have one vote. Associate members and observers are also present. Regular sessions are held every two years. The 33rd session was convened in late November-early December 2023. The Assembly is responsible for the election of members to the Council and approves the appointment of the Secretary-General. It considers reports from all subsidiary bodies and decides the action to be taken on them; it votes on the budget and determines the work programme and financial policy. </p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2137" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Council</heading>
               <p>The Council is the governing body of the organization between the biennial sessions of the Assembly. Its members, representatives of 40 states, are elected by the Assembly for a term of two years. The Council appoints the Secretary-General; transmits reports by the subsidiary bodies, and reports on the work of the organization generally; and submits budget estimates and financial statements with comments and recommendations to the Assembly. The Council normally meets twice a year.</p>
               <p>A decision made in December 2021 by the 32nd Assembly to increase the membership of the Council to 52 was to enter into effect following formal acceptance by two-thirds of the IMO membership (117 states). In November 2022 the Council approved the establishment of a voluntary multi-donor trust fund to support the full engagement of developing member states in IMO meetings.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-IMO.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Facilitation Committee</heading>
               <p>The Facilitation Committee deals with measures to facilitate maritime travel and transport and matters arising from the 1965 Convention of Facilitation of International Maritime Traffic (`FAL’), which aims to harmonize procedures relating to port arrivals, stays and departures. On 1 January 2018 revisions were adopted to an annex of FAL, which required port authorities to establish systems for the electronic exchange of information on cargo, crew and passengers. In May 2022 the Committee adopted amendments to FAL in accordance with which, following their entry into force on 1 January 2024, a single window for electronic data exchange on ship arrivals, stays and departures became mandatory in all ports worldwide.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2145" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Legal Committee</heading>
               <p>
        Established by the Council in June 1967 to deal initially with legal issues connected with the loss of the tanker 
        <i>Torrey Canyon,</i>
         and subsequently with any legal problems laid before IMO.
      </p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2149" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Technical Cooperation Committee</heading>
               <p>Evaluates the implementation of projects for which IMO is the executing agency, and oversees IMO's Integrated Technical Cooperation Programme and other capacity-building activities. Established in 1965 as a subsidiary body of the Council, and formally institutionalized by means of an amendment to the IMO Constitution in 1984.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2147" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Marine Environment Protection Committee (MEPC)</heading>
               <p>Co-ordinates IMO's work on the prevention and control of marine pollution from ships, and supports its consultations with other UN bodies, and with international organizations and expert bodies in the field of marine pollution.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2141" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Maritime Safety Committee (MSC)</heading>
               <p>The MSC is the highest technical body of the organization. It meets at least once a year and submits proposals to the Assembly on matters affecting the safety of shipping.</p>
               <p>The MEPC and the MSC are supported by sub-committees that cover: Carriage of cargoes and containers; Human element, training and watchkeeping; Implementation of IMO instruments; Navigation, communications and search and rescue; Pollution prevention and response; Ship design and construction; and Ship systems and equipment.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IMO.IO.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Regional Presence Offices (RPOs)</heading>
               <p>Regional co-ordinators and technical advisers are based at IMO RPOs in Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire (covering Francophone West and Central Africa); Accra, Ghana (Anglophone West and Central Africa); Nairobi, Kenya (Eastern and Southern Africa); Manila, Philippines (East Asia); and Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago (the Caribbean). The establishment of an Alexandria, Egypt-based IMO RPO for the Middle East and North Africa was pending in early 2024. A Technical Cooperation Officer for the Pacific Community is based in Suva, Fiji.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2151" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Secretariat</heading>
               <p id="IO-UN.2152">The secretariat, led by the Secretary-General (who serves a four-year term of office), comprises the following divisions: Administrative; Conference; Legal Affairs and External Relations; Marine Environment; Maritime Safety; and Technical Cooperation; and a Department of Partnerships and Projects. A Special Advisor to the Secretary-General on Maritime Security was appointed in November 2021.</p>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Secretary-General</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Arsenio Antonio</forename>
                                        <surname>Dominguez Velasco</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Panama</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2155" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Activities</heading>
          <p>In December 2021 the 32nd Assembly endorsed an IMO Capacity-Building Decade 2021-30. The 33rd regular Assembly, held in November-December 2023, adopted a strategic plan to cover 2024-29 which was focused on the following eight strategic directions: ensuring implementation of IMO instruments supported by capacity development; integrating new, emerging and advancing technologies in the regulatory framework for international shipping; responding to climate change and reducing greenhouse gas emissions from international shipping; engaging in ocean governance; enhancing global facilitation, supply chain resilience and the security of international trade; addressing the human element in the maritime sector; ensuring the regulatory effectiveness of international shipping; and ensuring organizational effectiveness. Other resolutions adopted by the 33rd Assembly included guidelines on places of refuge for ships in need of assistance and recommendations arising from a review of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on transport workers and the global supply chain. The gathering also addressed impacts on international shipping of the Russian Federation’s armed invasion of Ukraine and the enhancement of multilingualism.</p>
          <p>In January 2016 a mandatory audit scheme entered into force that aimed to assess and support the performance, under relevant IMO treaties, of member states as flag, port and coastal states. The first cycle of audits was to be completed by 2025. Periodically the Secretariat compiles an anonymous consolidated audit summary report (known as a CASR), which details lessons derived from the assessments.</p>
          <p>
      IMO’s online Global Integrated Shipping Information System (GISIS) reports on, 
      <i>inter alia,</i>
       fleets, cargoes, maritime and port security (including incidents of piracy), maritime casualties, pollution prevention, and also maintains an inter-agency platform for information sharing on migrant smuggling by sea.
    </p>
          <p>IMO sponsors an annual Day of the Seafarer (25 June). World Maritime Day is celebrated annually in late September. The World Maritime Theme for 2024 was `Navigating the future: safety first!’.</p>
          <int-org-section id="IMO.IO.HUMANELEMENT.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Human Element</heading>
               <p>
        A thorough revision was approved in mid-2010 (the `Manila Amendments’) of IMO's 1978 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IMO.IO.STCW.1">International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers (STCW)</xr>
        , and 1995 STCW Code—which aim to ensure high standards of competence for seafarers. In September 2010 IMO inaugurated a Seafarers’ Rights International Centre, located at the London headquarters of the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="ICFTU.IO.99">International Transport Workers’ Federation (ITF)</xr>
        . Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic IMO advocated for seafarers to be designated as key workers.
      </p>
               <p>In December 2019 the 31st IMO Assembly adopted a resolution aimed at achieving a barrier-free working environment for women in the maritime sector. The 32nd Assembly, held in December 2021, proclaimed 18 May as the International Day for Women in Maritime. An IMO Gender Equality Award scheme was to be introduced in 2025.</p>
               <p>
        In November 2021 IMO, the International Labour Organization, 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="ICFTU.IO.99">ITF,</xr>
         and other partners initiated a Maritime Just Transition Task Force, focused on developing the maritime skills required to promote a people-centred transition towards a zero carbon shipping industry.
      </p>
               <p>An IMO e-Learning portal is maintained.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IMO.IO.SAFETY.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Maritime Safety and Security</heading>
               <p>
        IMO is mandated to work to ensure the safety and security of maritime travel and trade. It has developed and adopted revisions of the principal agreement relating to maritime safety: the 1974 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO.IMO.SOLAS.1">International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea</xr>
         (SOLAS—the fourth version of a convention that was originally developed in response to the 1912 Titanic disaster), as well as global standards, best management practices, international collision regulations, and codes and conventions governing the facilitation of international maritime traffic, search and rescue, the carriage of dangerous goods, tonnage measurement, and load lines. 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IIO.IMO.SOLAS.1">SOLAS</xr>
         includes a mandatory International Ship and Port Facility Security (ISPS) Code, which sets a high standard of maritime security. The global maritime security dimension of IMO’s Integrated Technical Cooperation Programme provides training courses and extends technical assistance to support the implementation of the ISPS in member states. An International Safety Management (ISM) Code was adopted in 1993 and has subsequently been updated.
      </p>
               <p>The MSC adopted a set of goal-based standards (GBS) in May 2010 with which newly constructed oil tankers and bulk carriers were to comply. The GBS (representing the first standards set by IMO for ship construction) entered into force in 2012, and were applied from 1 July 2016.</p>
               <p>
        In November 2014 the MSC endorsed a mandatory International Code for Ships Operating in Polar Waters (Polar Code), and adopted related amendments to 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO.IMO.SOLAS.1">SOLAS</xr>
        , to take into account risks specific to the safety of ships operating in remote and environmentally extreme polar conditions. The Polar Code entered into force on 1 January 2017. In June 2015 the Committee approved amendments to 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO.IMO.SOLAS.1">SOLAS</xr>
         that made the International Code of Safety for Ships using Gases or other Low-Flashpoint Fuels (the IGF Code) mandatory. (These also entered into force on 1 January 2017.)
      </p>
               <p>Meeting in November 2022, the MSC adopted a mandatory International Code of Safety for Ships Carrying Industrial Personnel, which aimed to ensure the safe transport of workers at offshore facilities. Other issues addressed included unsafe mixed migration by sea; and the development of a goal-based instrument to regulate advances in automation on ships. It was envisaged that a binding code on maritime autonomous surface ships (known as MASS) would enter into force on 1 January 2028.</p>
               <!--~ ( blue safe maritime corridor previously encouraged by IMO in Azov)-->
               <p>IMO promotes maritime cyber risk resilience, and has supported the development of measures to reduce the risk of unauthorized persons boarding ships and of other illicit maritime activities. Through a Piracy and Armed Robbery module in the GISIS, IMO issues real-time reports of attacks against ships. Guidance has been drafted relating to the activities of privately contracted armed security personnel (PCASP), used for protection on some merchant vessels. In late 2023 the 33rd IMO Assembly urged member states and other stakeholders to promote actions aimed at preventing clandestine illegal `dark' or `shadow’ fleet maritime operations.</p>
               <p-group id="IMO.IO.DJIB.1">
                    <heading>Djibouti Code and Jeddah Amendment</heading>
                    <p>In January 2009 a high level meeting of states from the Western Indian Ocean, the Gulf of Aden and Red Sea areas, held under IMO auspices, adopted the Djibouti Code of Conduct concerning the Repression of Piracy and Armed Robbery. Signatories to the Code agreed to co-operate lawfully in the apprehension, investigation and prosecution of people suspected of committing or facilitating acts of piracy; in the seizure of suspect vessels; in the rescue of ships, persons and property subject to acts of armed robbery; and to collaborate in the conduct of security operations. The Jeddah Amendment to the Djibouti Code of Conduct, signed in January 2017, provided for co-operation—supported by IMO and other stakeholders—in developing national and regional capacity to address wider maritime security issues, with a focus on promoting the `blue economy’ and sustainable development of the maritime sector. Maritime terrorism, transnational organized crime (including trafficking in humans, arms, narcotics and wildlife), illegal dumping of toxic waste, illegal oil bunkering, and illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing were to be countered through an enhanced information sharing regime, and increased interventions. By 2024 the Jeddah Amendment had 17 signatories. An IMO Djibouti Code of Conduct Trust Fund has been established. In December 2023 signatories of the Djibouti Code and Jeddah Amendment convened an extraordinary meeting to discuss an escalation of insecurity in the Red Sea; enhanced security measures and a continuous schedule of meetings were agreed.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="IMO.IO.YCC.1">
                    <heading>Yaoundé Code of Conduct (YCC)</heading>
                    <p>IMO supported the drafting of a Code of Conduct concerning the Prevention and Repression of Piracy, Armed Robbery against Ships, and Illegal Maritime Activities in West and Central Africa. This was formally adopted at a meeting of regional heads of state convened in June 2013, in Yaoundé, Cameroon, and has subsequently been referred to as the Yaoundé Code of Conduct (YCC). Implementation of the YCC is supported by a Yaoundé-based Interregional Coordination Centre, and IMO technical assistance is financed through a dedicated West and Central Africa Maritime Security Trust Fund.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IMO.IO.ENVIRONMENT.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Marine Environment</heading>
               <p>
        IMO has developed and adopted revisions to the main global instrument underpinning the protection of the marine environment from shipping operations or accidents: the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO.IMO.MARPOL.1">International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships</xr>
         (MARPOL).
      </p>
               <p>
        In July 2011 states parties to 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO.IMO.MARPOL.1">MARPOL</xr>
         adopted amendments to Annex VI (relating to prevention of air pollution from ships) to make mandatory the Energy Efficiency Design Index, for new ships, of 400 gross tonnage and above, and the Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan for all ships. The revised regulations entered into force on 1 January 2013. In September 2016 the so-called GloMEEP Project co-ordinated jointly by IMO, the UN Development Programme (UNDP), and the UN’s Global Environment Facility, issued guidelines aimed at supporting the implementation of mandated energy-efficiency measures for shipping. In October the MEPC adopted a mandatory fuel collection data regime, in accordance with which ships of 5,000 gross tonnage and above would henceforth be required to collect consumption data for all types of fuel used. This commenced on 1 January 2019. In July 2017, under GloMEEP auspices, leading ship operators and owners, engine builders and suppliers, oil companies, big data providers, and other shipping industry interests, established a Global Industry Alliance (GIA), and GIA Taskforce, to help shipping and related industries transition towards low carbon processes (with decarbonization the ultimate objective). In July 2023 the MEPC adopted a revised IMO Strategy on Reduction of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions from Ships (2030 IMO GHG Strategy), which committed to facilitating a reduction in such emissions by at least 20% by 2030, and by at least 70% by 2040; it was envisaged that net-zero GHG emissions from international shipping would be achieved by around 2050. An IMO Future Fuels and Technology for Low- and Zero-Carbon Shipping Project was assessing the availability of appropriate ship technology and marine fuels.
      </p>
               <p>
        The IMO Secretariat participated in an Intergovernmental Conference on Marine Biodiversity of Areas Beyond National Jurisdiction (BBNJ) that was tasked in December 2017 with drafting a legally binding instrument, under 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="UNCLOS.IO.1">UNCLOS</xr>
        , aimed at conserving and sustainably using the marine biological diversity in such areas; in June 2023 the IMO Secretary-General welcomed the adoption of a final agreement on BBNJ.
      </p>
               <p>
        In June 2010 five navigational areas (NAVAREAs) and meteorological areas (METAREAs), delineated by IMO and the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.2609">World Meteorological Organization</xr>
         respectively, were established in Arctic waters, expanding the World Wide Navigational Warning System into the region and thereby enabling ships operating there to receive necessary information about navigational and meteorological hazards.
      </p>
               <p>During the first phase of an IMO-European Union project (initiated in April 2016) to develop a Global Maritime Technology Cooperation Centres Network (GMN), the following five centres were inaugurated: MTCC-Caribbean, at the University of Trinidad and Tobago, in March 2017; MTCC-Asia at the Shanghai Maritime University, People’s Republic of China, in May; MTCC-Africa at the Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology, Mombasa, Kenya, and MTCC-Pacific at the Pacific Community headquarters in Suva, Fiji, in December; and MTCC-Latin America at the International Maritime University of Panama, in March 2018. Under GMN Phase II, announced in November 2023, the activities of the five GMNs were to be upscaled.</p>
               <p>An IMO Department of Partnerships and Projects was established in February 2020, tasked with addressing global issues impacting international shipping, such as marine plastic litter, biofouling and decarbonization. The MEPC initiated an Action Plan in October 2018 to address marine plastic litter, and in 2021 adopted a Strategy aimed at achieving zero plastic waste discharges from ships into the marine environment by 2025. IMO participates in the Global Partnership on Plastic Pollution and Marine Litter.</p>
               <p usage="edio">From 2019 IMO supported contingency planning with respect to the risk of an environmentally damaging oil spillage from the FSO Safer, a degraded oil storage unit moored off the coast of Yemen, and urged international donors to pledge funds in support of a UN co-ordinated plan to transfer oil from the Safer. In August 2023 IMO’s Secretary-General confirmed that the transfer of some 1.1m. barrels of oil from the FSO Safer had been completed.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.IMO.111" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Principal Conventions</heading>
               <heading-note>of which IMO is the depository</heading-note>
               <org-list>
                    <org-entry id="IO.IMO.SOLAS.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="edio ewyb">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS), 1974</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            entered into force in May 1980; a 1978 Protocol came into force in May 1981; a second Protocol, of 1988, came into force in Feb. 2000; amendments including special measures to enhance maritime safety came into force in July 2004; further amendments strengthening international passenger ship safety regulations entered into force in July 2010; the International Code for the Application of Fire Test Procedures became mandatory on 1 July 2012; draft amendments requiring the mandatory staging of safety drills for newly embarked passengers prior to or immediately upon a ship’s departure (proposed in response to the sinking of the cruise ship 
            <i>Costa Concordia</i>
             off the Italian coast in Jan. 2012) were adopted in June 2013; amendments relating to lifeboat safety entered into force in Jan. 2013 and Jan. 2020; in July 2014 requirements governing procedures for recovering people from the sea, and relating to noise levels on ships, entered into effect; in Nov. amendments were adopted relating to safety in polar waters, to the verification of the gross mass of containers, and to the presence on ships of precautionary portable atmosphere testing instruments when entering enclosed spaces, and (in principle) to gases and low flashpoint fuels; mandatory requirements for inert gas systems onboard certain new oil and chemical tankers entered into force in July 2016
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO.IMO.MARPOL.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="edio ewyb">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">(as modified by the Protocol of 1978, known as MARPOL 73/78); came into force in Oct. 1983; extended to include regulations to prevent air pollution in Sept. 1997; entered into force in May 2005; a revised MARPOL Annex III: Prevention of Pollution from Packaged Goods, and a revised MARPOL Annex V: Regulations for the Prevention of Pollution by Garbage from Ships, were approved in Oct. 2010; in July 2011 a revision to Annex I, banning heavy fuel oil from the Antarctic region, was adopted; an amendment to MARPOL to reduce the global cap on the sulphur content of fuel oil used in ships—to 0.50% mass/mass (from 3.5%)—was implemented from 1 Jan. 2020; a revised MARPOL Annex VI: Prevention of Air Pollution from Ships was adopted in Oct. 2008 and entered into force in July 2010; further amendments to Annex VI entered into effect in May 2005 (establishing a Baltic Sea Emission Control Area—ECA), in Nov. 2007 (creating a North Sea ECA), in Aug. 2012 (providing for a North American ECA), and in Jan. 2014 (establishing a USA/Caribbean Sea ECA); new amendments to Annex VI, introducing the mandatory measuring and reporting of the energy efficiency and carbon intensity of existing ships, entered into force on 1 Nov. 2022</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO.IMO.STCW.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="edio ewyb">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping (STCW) for Seafarers, 1978</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">entered into force in April 1984; restructured by amendments that entered into force in Feb. 1997, and by further `Manila Amendments’ adopted in June 2010; a `white list’ records countries deemed to be implementing the Convention fully</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="edio ewyb">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>International Convention on Standards on Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Fishing Vessel Personnel (STCW-F), 1995</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">entered into force in Sept. 2012; the adoption by the MSC of an updated version of STCW-F and new mandatory STCW-F Code was pending in 2024</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Maritime Labour Convention, 2006</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">entered into force in Aug. 2013</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Jan. 2017—with a view to giving seafarers more financial security—amendments entered into force that required shipowners to maintain compulsory insurance covering the abandonment of, death of, or serious injury to seafarers</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
               </org-list>
               <!--~ SOLAS, MARPOL, STCW, Maritime Labour Convention considered main pillars of the most important maritime regulations covering international shipping-->
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-IMO-OTHERCONVS.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb">
               <heading>Other Conventions</heading>
               <p>IMO is the depository of several other conventions in the areas of maritime safety and security and the ship/port interface; prevention of marine pollution; and liability and compensation, as well as covering the tonnage measurement of ships and salvage.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO.IMO-OTHERCONVS.2" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="edio">
               <heading>Other Conventions</heading>
               <heading-note>of which IMO is the depository</heading-note>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Maritime safety and security and the ship/port interface</heading>
                    <p>These include: the Convention on the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea (COLREG—adopted in 1972 and entered into force in 1977); Convention on Facilitation of International Maritime Traffic (adopted in 1965, entered into force in 1967); International Convention on Load Lines (LL—1966, 1968), and its Protocol (1988, 2000); International Convention on Maritime Search and Rescue (SAR—1979, 1985); Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against the Safety of Maritime Navigation (SUA—1988, 1992), and its Protocol (2005, 2010); the International Convention for Safe Containers (CSC—1972, 1977); Convention on the International Maritime Satellite Organization (IMSO-C—1976, 1979; 2008 amendments not yet in force); Cape Town Agreement (2012, not yet in force) on the Implementation of the Provisions of the not as yet in force 1993 Torremolinos Protocol to the 1977 Torremolinos International Convention for the Safety of Fishing Vessels (which the Protocol superseded); and the Special Trade Passenger Ships Agreement (STP—1971, 1974), and its Protocol on Space Requirements for Special Trade Passenger Ships (1973, 1977).</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Prevention of marine pollution</heading>
                    <p>These include: the International Convention Relating to Intervention on the High Seas in Cases of Oil Pollution Casualties (INTERVENTION, adopted in 1969 and entered into force in 1975), and its 1973 Protocol; Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter (LC—1972, 1975), and its 1996 London Protocol; the International Convention on Oil Pollution Preparedness, Response and Co-operation (OPRC, 1990, 1995), and the Protocol on Preparedness, Response and Co-operation to pollution Incidents by Hazardous and Noxious Substances (2000, 2007); the International Convention on the Control of Harmful Anti-fouling Systems on Ships (AFS, 2001, 2008); the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships' Ballast Water and Sediments (2004, 2017); this aimed to prevent the spread from ships of invasive aquatic species); and the Hong Kong International Convention for the Safe and Environmentally Sound Recycling of Ships (2009, scheduled to enter into force on 26 June 2025).</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Liability and compensation</heading>
                    <p>These include: the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage (CLC, adopted in 1969 and entered into force in 1975); four protocols to the International Convention on the Establishment of an International Fund for Compensation for Oil Pollution Damage (FUND 1976, FUND 1992, FUND 2000 and FUND 2003); the Convention relating to Civil Liability in the Field of Maritime Carriage of Nuclear Material (NUCLEAR, adopted in 1971 and entered into force in 1975); the Athens Convention relating to the Carriage of Passengers and their Luggage by Sea (PAL—1974, 2014); the Convention on Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims (LLMC—1974, 2004); the International Convention on Liability and Compensation for Damage in Connection with the Carriage of Hazardous and Noxious Substances by Sea (HNS—1996, not in force), and its Protocol (2010, not in force); the International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage (2001, 2008); and the Nairobi International Convention on the Removal of Wrecks (2007, April 2015).</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Salvage and tonnage measurement</heading>
                    <p>The IMO is also the depository of the International Convention on Salvage (SALVAGE—adopted 1989, entered into force in 1996); and the International Convention on Tonnage Measurement of Ships (TONNAGE—1969, 1982), providing a universal system for measuring ships' tonnage.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO.IMO-PORTSTATEAGS.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Port State Control Agreements</heading>
               <p>Port State Control agreements (relating to the inspection of foreign ships in national ports to verify compliance with international standards and regulations) that have been concluded by IMO include the Paris Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on Port State Control, 1982 (covering Europe and the North Atlantic); Viña del Mar Agreement, 1992 (Latin America); Tokyo MOU, 1993 (Asia and the Pacific); Caribbean MOU, 1996; Mediterranean MOU, 1997; Indian Ocean MOU, 1998; Abuja MOU, 1999 (West and Central Africa); Black Sea, MOU, 2000; and the Riyadh MOU, 2005 (Gulf region). An International Ship and Port Facility Security Code was adopted under IMO auspices in December 2002 and entered into force in July 2004. IMO has convened a series of workshops for the administrators of Port State Control agreements. In 2017 the 30th IMO Assembly adopted revised Procedures for Port State Control.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2189" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Finance</heading>
          <p>Contributions are received from the member states, with the amount paid calculated according to the tonnage of a member state's merchant fleet. In December 2023 the Assembly approved a budget appropriation of £40.9m. for 2024.</p>
          <p>IMO maintains a Technical Cooperation Fund, and dedicated multi-donor trust funds are established to target contributions towards specific goals.</p>
          <!--~ budget: &#163;42.7m. in 2025-->
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2191" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Publications</heading>
          <publ-list>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>IMO News</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">quarterly</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Ships' Routeing</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
          </publ-list>
          <p>Numerous specialized publications, including international conventions of which IMO is the depository.</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2184" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Training Institutes</heading>
          <org-list>
               <org-entry id="IO-UN.2185" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <data-protection date-added="09.12.2020" ticked-box="Y" />
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>IMO International Maritime Law Institute </org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>IMLI</abbr>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>University of Malta Campus Msida, MSD 2080, Malta</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">21319343</telephone>
                         <email>info@imli.org</email>
                         <internet>www.imli.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1988</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">provides degree courses, other training courses, study and research facilities for specialists in maritime law</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">promotes the devt and dissemination of knowledge and expertise in the international legal regime of merchant shipping and related areas</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">
          in May 2023 signed a letter of co-operation with the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="ISA.IO">International Seabed Authority</xr>
                    </content-note>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Dir</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <title>Prof. Dr</title>
                                   <forename>Norman A.</forename>
                                   <surname>Martínez Gutiérrez</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Honduras</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">
          publs 
          <publ-name>IMLI News</publ-name>
          , 
          <publ-name>IMLI e-News</publ-name>
          , 
          <publ-name>IMLI Global Directory</publ-name>
                    </content-note>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="IO-UN.2188" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <data-protection date-added="04.04.2007" ticked-box="Y" />
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>World Maritime University</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>WMU</abbr>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>POB 500, Fiskehamnsgatan 1, 201 24 Malmö, Sweden</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(40) 356300</telephone>
                         <email>info@wmu.se</email>
                         <internet>www.wmu.se</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">f. 1983; offers postgraduate courses in maritime affairs and international maritime law and ocean policy, and professional devt courses</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">undertakes various research projects</content-note>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Pres.</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <title>Prof.</title>
                                   <forename>Maximo Q.</forename>
                                   <surname>Mejia</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Philippines</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">
          publs 
          <publ-name>WMU News</publ-name>
          , 
          <publ-name>WMU Handbook</publ-name>
          , 
          <publ-name>WMU Journal of Maritime Affairs</publ-name>
           (2 a year), several books on maritime issues
        </content-note>
               </org-entry>
          </org-list>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.IMO.2" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Other Affiliated Bodies</heading>
          <org-list>
               <org-entry id="IO.IMO.GESAMP.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Joint Group of Experts on the Scientific Aspects of Marine Environmental Protection</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>GESAMP</abbr>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>c/o 4 Albert Embankment, London, SE1 7SR, United Kingdom</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="Y">(20) 7735-7611</telephone>
                         <internet>www.gesamp.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1969</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">undertakes studies and assessments on scientific aspects of marine environmental protection</content-note>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Chair.</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>David Hugh </forename>
                                   <surname>Vousden</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>South Africa</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
                    <stats>mems: 19 experts</stats>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="IO-UN.2187.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <!--rc 26.12.2019 cannot confirm fax-->
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Partnerships in Environmental Management for the Seas of East Asia</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>PEMSEA</abbr>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>POB 2502, Quezon City, 1165 Philippines</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 9292992</telephone>
                         <fax>(2) 4263849</fax>
                         <email>info@pemsea.org</email>
                         <internet>www.pemsea.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to build interagency, intersectoral and intergovernmental partnerships for the implementation of the Sustainable Development Strategy for the Seas of East Asia</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">funding partners incl. UNDP and the Global Environment Facility</content-note>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Exec. Dir</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Aimee</forename>
                                   <surname>Gonzales</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Philippines</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="IO-UN.2187" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <data-protection date-added="25.01.2017" ticked-box="N" />
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Regional Marine Pollution Emergency Response Centre for the Mediterranean Sea</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>REMPEC</abbr>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>Sa Maison Hill, Floriana, FRN 1613, Malta</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">21337296</telephone>
                         <fax>21339951</fax>
                         <email>rempec@rempec.org</email>
                         <internet>www.rempec.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1976 as the Regional Oil Combating Centre for the Mediterranean Sea</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">administered by IMO in conjunction with the Regional Seas Programme of UNEP</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to develop measures to prevent and combat pollution from ships in the Mediterranean</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">co-ordinates activities for implementation of the Prevention and Emergency Protocol to the Barcelona Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment and the Coastal Region of the Mediterranean Sea</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">was implementing during 2022-31 a Mediterranean Strategy for the Prevention of, Preparedness for, and Response to Marine Pollution from Ships</content-note>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Head of Office</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Ivan</forename>
                                   <surname>Sammut</surname>
                              </person-name>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="IO-UN.2187.2" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <data-protection date-added="10.01.2017" ticked-box="Y" />
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Regional Marine Pollution Emergency, Information and Training Center for the Wider Caribbean Region</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>RAC-REMPEITC-Caribe</abbr>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>Seru Mahuma z/n, Aviation &amp; Meteorology Bldg, Curaçao</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">868-4612</telephone>
                         <fax>868-4996</fax>
                         <email>rempeitc@racrempeitc.org</email>
                         <internet>www.racrempeitc.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1995</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to help to prevent and respond to major pollution incidents in the region's marine environment</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">administered by IMO in conjunction with UNEP's Regional Seas Programme</content-note>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Dir</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Carla</forename>
                                   <surname>Bikker</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>acting</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
          </org-list>
     </int-org-section>
</int-org-entry>