<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="IOC.IO" id-root="ioc.io" iso="ioc.io" original-filename="wb02054.txt" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>International Olympic Committee</org-entry-name>
               <abbr>IOC</abbr>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">MAJOR NON-UN ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE">International Olympic Committee</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>Olympic House, route de Vidy 9, 1007 Lausanne, Switzerland</verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <telephone alsofax="N">216216000</telephone>
               <email>pressoffice@ioc.org</email>
               <internet>www.olympic.org</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p id="IOC.IO.4">The IOC was founded in 1894 to ensure the regular celebration of the Olympic Games. The Committee is a non-governmental international organization integral to the promotion of the Olympic Movement and principles of Olympism.</p>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="IOC.IO.94" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <heading-note>April 2024</heading-note>
          <p id="IOC.IO.5">The International Olympic Committee comprises a maximum 115 ordinary members (of whom up to 70 may be individual members, up to 15 active athletes, up to 15 representatives of IOC-accredited International Sports Federations (IFs), and up to 15 representatives of National Olympic Committees). The Committee meets in session at least once a year (141st session: Mumbai, India, in October 2023). The IOC Members Election Commission examines and reports to the Executive Board on each candidate for membership of the IOC. There are 206 re­cognized National Olympic Committees, which are the sole authori­ties responsible for the representation of their respective countries at the Olympic Games. The Russian Olympic Committee (ROC) was suspended in October 2023, following its recognition of Olympic councils from the annexed regions of Donetsk, Kherson, Luhansk and Zaporizhzhya, thus violating the integrity of the Olympic Committee of Ukraine. The 12th edition of an Olympic Summit was convened in December 2023, in Lausanne.</p>
          <int-org-section id="IOC.IO.96" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Executive Board</heading>
               <p>The session of the IOC delegates the authority to manage the IOC's affairs to the Executive Board. The President of the Board is elected for an eight-year term, and is eligible for re-election once for an additional term of four years. Four Vice-Presidents and an additional 10 members of the board are elected for four-year terms. The Executive Board generally meets four to five times per year.</p>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="IOC.IO.9" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>President</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Thomas</forename>
                                        <surname>Bach</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Germany</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IOC.IO.97" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>IOC Commissions</heading>
               <p>IOC maintains Commissions on the following: athletes; athletes' entourages; audit; co-ordination; culture and Olympic heritage; digital engagement and marketing communications; esports; ethics; finance; future hosts; gender equality, diversity and inclusion; human resources; IOC members election; legal affairs; medical and scientific; Olympic education; the Olympic programme; Olympic solidarity; Olympism 365; programme; public affairs and corporate communications; revenues and commercial partnerships; sustainability and legacy; and technology and technical innovation. There is also an Advisory Committee on Human Rights, and there are boards of directors for IOC television and market services, Olympic broadcasting services, and the Olympic Channel (which provides continuous coverage of Olympic matters).</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-IOC.1234" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="edio">
               <heading usage="edio">Olympic Congress</heading>
               <p usage="edio">Olympic Congresses are held periodically, on particular themes, to gather together the different components of the Olympic Movement with the aim of evaluating ongoing opportunities and challenges. The first Congress (Paris, France, 1894) addressed the theme `Re-establishment of the Olympic Games'; the most recent, the 13th Congress (Copenhagen, Denmark, October 2009) was convened on the theme `The Role of the Olympic Movement in Society and in all Regions of the World'.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IOC.IO.98" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Administration</heading>
               <p>The administration of the IOC is under the authority of the Director-General, who is appointed by the Execut­ive Board, on the proposal of the President, and is assisted by 21 sectoral directors and other senior officials.</p>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="IOC.IO.33" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Director-General</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Christophe</forename>
                                        <surname>de Kepper</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Belgium</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IOC.IO.99" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Activities</heading>
          <p>The Olympic Charter, which is regularly revised, is the codification of the fundamental prin­ciples, rules and by-laws adopted by the IOC. It governs the organization and operation of the Olympic Movement, defines the fundamental principles of Olympism and stipu­lates the conditions for the celebration of the Olympic Games. The 137th IOC session held in March 2021 adopted a new Olympic Agenda 2020+5, comprising 15 recommendations to guide the work of the IOC and the Olympic Movement to 2025. Three key strategic pillars of Agenda 2020+5 covered IOC contributions to the achievement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (supported by an Olympism 365 strategy that was endorsed by the Executive Board in October 2021), IOC commitment to solidarity, and the digitalization of the Olympic Movement.</p>
          <p>The fundamental principles of Olympism recognize the practice of sport as a human right, which should be available to all without discrimination. For the first time a team comprising refugee athletes competed at the 2016 (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil) Summer Games. An Olympic Refuge Foundation was established in 2017 to contribute to the wellbeing of displaced young people through access to sport.</p>
          <p>
      The Lausanne-based 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="OTHER-IO.SPORT.CAS.1">Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS)</xr>
       was established in 1984 under IOC auspices, and became dependent of the IOC in 1994. An International Council of Arbitration for Sport (ICAS) administers the CAS. With effect from the 2016 Olympic Games (held in August of that year) decisions on alleged violations of anti-doping regulations were delegated to an independent Anti-Doping Division of the 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="OTHER-IO.SPORT.CAS.1">CAS</xr>
      . (Hitherto these were heard by an IOC Disciplinary Commission.) In February 2024 the CAS rejected an appeal by the ROC against its suspension from the IOC.
    </p>
          <p>
      The IOC provides one-half of the funding of the 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="IOC.IO.42">World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA)</xr>
      , which it established in 1999, with a mandate to develop and co-ordinate a global regime of anti-doping policies and rules.
    </p>
          <p usage="edio">In November 2021 the fourth session was convened of an International Forum for Sports Integrity (established in 2015).</p>
          <p>
      In 2001 the IOC signed an agreement with the affilated 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XH.IO.TXT.80">International Paralympic Committee</xr>
       guaranteeing that Olympic host cities would be contracted to organize and manage both the Olympic Games and the Paralympic Games, which in practice had been undertaken since 1988.
    </p>
          <p>The IOC recognizes 32 IFs, which implement the WADA Anti-Doping Code and are responsible for administering one or more sports at the global level. In June 2023 the IOC Executive Board derecognized the International Boxing Association as the representative body for that sport, citing its failure to implement necessary governance, finance and ethical reforms.</p>
          <p>Since 2009 the IOC has accredited IOC Research Centres (numbering 11 during 2023-26) that are mandated to develop effective preventive and treatment methods for sports-related injuries and illnesses. The seventh IOC World Conference on Prevention of Injury and Illness in Sport was organized in late February-early March 2024, in Monaco.</p>
          <p>
      In late February 2022, following the Russian Federation’s military invasion of Ukraine, aided by Belarus, the IOC Executive Board issued an urgent recommendation that no sports events should be organized in Russia or Belarus, determined to prohibit participation by Russian and Belarusian athletes and officials in international events, and established a solidarity fund for Ukraine. In March 2023 the Executive Board issued eligibility criteria that stipulated that individual athletes with a Russian or Belarusian passport should be permitted to compete in future Olympic events as Individual Neutral Athletes (`AINs’); that participation by teams of athletes with a Russian or Belarusian passport would not be considered; and that athletes and other personnel who were actively supporting Russia’s war against Ukraine or who were contracted to the Russian or Belarusian military or national security agencies would not be permitted to participate. Russia- or Belarus-organized sporting events and the use of those states’ identifying symbols would not be permitted. In December (following the suspension in October of the ROC) the Executive Board confirmed that AINs who had, through IF qualification systems, met the criteria for participation in the forthcoming Paris Summer Olympic Games (scheduled for July-August 2024) would be permitted to compete. However, 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XH.IO.TXT.61">World Athletics</xr>
      , the IF responsible for athletics, stated that, barring unforseen developments in Russia’s war against Ukraine, its ban on Belarusian and Russian participation in the 2024 Paris Games would remain in place.
    </p>
          <p usage="edio">In addition to physical sports, the IOC also recognizes (although not as a part of the Games of the Olympiad) certain activities that do not require athleticism, such as bowling, chess and esports. The inaugural Olympic Esports Week was held in Singapore, in June 2023.</p>
          <p>
      The World Olympians Association, uniting competitors from past Olympic Games, and the Paris, France-based 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="SPORT.IO.ICFP.1">International Committee for Fair Play</xr>
       are recognized by the IOC. An Olympic Museums Network, established in 2006, had 34 participating museums by February 2024.
    </p>
          <!-- Under guidelines introduced in 2016, the IOC allows athletes transitioning from female to male to participate without restrictions. Male to female competitors are required to have kept their levels of testosterone (which increases muscle mass) below a stipulated level for at least 12 months-->
          <!--IOC strongly supports the International Partnership Against Corruption in Sport (IPACS)-->
          <int-org-section id="IOC.IO.101" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>The Games of the Olympiad</heading>
               <p id="IOC.IO.43">The Olympic Summer Games take place during the first year of the Olympiad (period of four years) that they are to celebrate. They are the exclusive property of the IOC, which entrusts their organization to a host city seven years in advance.</p>
               <p-alternates default="EWYB" type="ALTERNATES">
                    <p usage="ewyb">The first of the so-called modern Olympic Games took place in Athens, Greece, in April 1896. The Games of the 34th Olympiad were to take place in the French capital, Paris, in July-August 2024.</p>
                    <p usage="edio">The first of the so-called modern Olympic Games took place in Athens, Greece, in April 1896. The first of the so-called modern Olympic Games took place in Athens, Greece, in April 1896. The Games of the 34th Olympiad were to take place in the French capital, Paris, in July-August 2024.</p>
               </p-alternates>
               <table-block-simple id="IOC.IO.105" type="OTHER" usage="edio ewyb">
                    <table pgwide="NO" style="WITHOUT-RULES">
                         <tgroup cols="4">
                              <colspec colwidth="2cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="8cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="2cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="8cm" />
                              <tbody>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1896</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Athens</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1972</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Munich</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1900</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Paris</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1976</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Montreal</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1904</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">St Louis</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1980</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Moscow</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1908</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">London</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1984</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Los Angeles</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1912</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Stockholm</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1988</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Seoul</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1920</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Antwerp</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1992</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Barcelona</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1924</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Paris</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1996</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Atlanta</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1928</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Amsterdam</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2000</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Sydney</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1932</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Los Angeles</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2004</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Athens</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1936</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Berlin</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2008</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Beijing</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1948</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">London</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2012</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">London</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1952</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Helsinki</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2016</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Rio de Janeiro</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1956</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Melbourne</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2020</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Tokyo (held in 2021)</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1960</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Rome</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2024</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Paris</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1964</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Tokyo</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2028</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Los Angeles</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1968</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Mexico City</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2032</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Brisbane</entry>
                                   </row>
                              </tbody>
                         </tgroup>
                    </table>
               </table-block-simple>
               <p id="IOC.IO.70">In December 2020 the IOC Executive Board approved breakdancing, skateboarding, sport climbing, and surfing as additional, non-traditional sports to be included in the 2024 (Paris) Olympic Summer Games, which were to have a principal focus on gender equality and youth. Five additional sports for the 2028 Games, to be held in Los Angeles, were approved in October 2023: baseball, cricket, flag football, softball, and squash.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IOC.IO.102" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Olympic Winter Games</heading>
               <p id="IOC.IO.71" usage="ewyb edio">The Olympic Winter Games, held since 1924, comprise competitions in sports practised on snow and ice. Since 1994 they have been scheduled for the second calendar year following that in which the Games of the Olympiad take place. The Winter Games may include biathlon, bobsleigh, curling, ice hockey, luge, skating, and skiing (including Alpine skiing, cross-country skiing, freestyle skiing, Nordic combined skiing, ski jumping and snowboarding).</p>
               <p usage="ewyb">The 2026 Winter Games were to be hosted by Milan and Cortina d'Ampezzo, Italy, in February.</p>
               <table-block-simple id="IOC.IO.106" type="OTHER" usage="edio ewyb">
                    <table pgwide="NO" style="WITHOUT-RULES">
                         <tgroup cols="4">
                              <colspec colwidth="2cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="8cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="2cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="8cm" />
                              <tbody>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1924</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Chamonix</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1984</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Sarajevo</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1928</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">St Moritz</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1988</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Calgary</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1932</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Lake Placid</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1992</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Albertville</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1936</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Garmisch-Partenkirchen</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1994</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Lillehammer</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1948</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">St Moritz</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1998</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Nagano</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1952</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Oslo</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2002</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Salt Lake City</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1956</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Cortina d'Ampezzo</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2006</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Turin</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1960</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Squaw Valley</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2010</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Vancouver</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1964</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Innsbrück</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2014</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Sochi</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1968</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Grenoble</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2018</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Pyeongchang</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1972</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Sapporo</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2022</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Beijing</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1976</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Innsbrück</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2026</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Milan/Cortina d'Ampezzo</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1980</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Lake Placid</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   </row>
                              </tbody>
                         </tgroup>
                    </table>
               </table-block-simple>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-IOC.00001" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Youth Olympic Games</heading>
               <p>In July 2007 the IOC approved Summer and Winter Youth Olympic Games, in which athletes aged between 14 and 18 years may compete.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb">The fourth Youth Summer Olympic Games were to be held in Dakar, Senegal, in October-November 2026 (postponed from 2022). The fourth Winter Youth Olympic Games took place in Gangwon (South Korea) in January 2024.</p>
               <table-block-simple id="IO-IOC.00002" type="OTHER" usage="edio ewyb">
                    <table pgwide="NO" style="WITHOUT-RULES">
                         <tgroup cols="4">
                              <colspec colwidth="2cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="8cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="2cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="8cm" />
                              <tbody>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2012</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Innsbrück (winter)</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2020</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Lausanne (winter)</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2014</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Nanjing (summer)</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER" valign="top">2022</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Dakar (summer; postponed to 2026)</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2016 </entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Lillehammer (winter)</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2024</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Gangwon (winter)</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2018</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Buenos Aires (summer)</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   </row>
                              </tbody>
                         </tgroup>
                    </table>
               </table-block-simple>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IOC.IO.103" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Finance</heading>
          <p id="IOC.IO.93">The IOC derives marketing revenue from the sale of broadcast rights, the Olympic Partners sponsorship Programme, local sponsorship, ticketing, and licensing. Some 8% of this is retained for the Committee’s operational budget, with the remainder allocated to Olympic organizing committees, National Olympic Committees and teams, and international sports federations.</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IOC.IO.104" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Publications</heading>
          <publ-list>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>IOC Newsletter</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">weekly</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Olympic Review</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">quarterly</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
          </publ-list>
     </int-org-section>
     <!--~WADA and International Committee for Fair Play versions removed 6.vii.22 (both in small orgs Sport and Recreations)-->
</int-org-entry>