<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="IRC.IO" id-root="irc.io" iso="irc.io" original-filename="gans24af.txt" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement</org-entry-name>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">MAJOR NON-UN ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">REGIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE">Red Cross/Red Crescent</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <p>
      The Movement is an international independent humanitarian organization, comprising three main components: the 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="IRC-ICRC.IO.CASEE">International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC)</xr>
      , founded in 1863; the 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="IRC-FED.IO.CASEE">International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (the Federation)</xr>
      , founded in 1919; and National Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies in 190 countries; as well as Magen David Adom, an Israeli society equivalent to the Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. In 1997 all constituent parts of the Movement adopted the Seville Agreement on co-operation in the undertaking of international relief activities. On 1 April 2015 new Statutes of the ICRC entered into force, replacing those that had been in place (including subsequent amendments) since 1973.
    </p>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="IRC.CASEE.148" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <int-org-section id="IRC.CASEE.149" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>International Conference</heading>
               <p>The supreme deliberative body of the Movement, the Conference comprises delegations from the ICRC, the Federation and the National Societies, and of representatives of States Parties to the Geneva Conventions. The Conference determines the general policy of the Movement and works to ensure unity in the activities of the various bodies. It usually meets every four to five years. The 34th International Conference was to be convened in October 2024, in Geneva.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IRC.CASEE.150" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Standing Commission</heading>
               <p>The Commission meets at least twice a year in ordinary session. It promotes harmony in the work of the Movement, and examines matters which concern the Movement as a whole. It is formed of two representatives of the ICRC, two of the Federation, and five members of National Societies elected by the Conference.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IRC.CASEE.151" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Council of Delegates</heading>
               <p>The Council comprises delegations from the National Societies, from the ICRC and from the Federation. The Council is the body where the representatives of all the components of the Movement meet to discuss matters that concern the Movement as a whole.</p>
               <p>In November 1997 the Council adopted an Agreement on the organization of the activities of the Movement's components. The Agreement aimed to promote increased co-operation and partnership between the Movement's bodies, in particular to define the distribution of tasks and to ensure continuity between international operations carried out in a crisis situation and those developed in its aftermath.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section-alternates default="EWYB" type="ALTERNATES">
          <int-org-section id="IRC.IO.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb">
               <heading>Fundamental Principles of the Movement</heading>
               <p>The Movement’s fundamental principles are humanity; impartiality; neutrality; independence; voluntary service; unity; and universality.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IRC.CASEE.152" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="edio">
               <heading>Fundamental Principles of the Movement</heading>
               <p-group id="IRC.CASEE.153">
                    <heading usage="edio">Humanity</heading>
                    <p id="IRC.CASEE.140" usage="edio">The International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement, born of a desire to bring assistance without discrimination to the wounded on the battlefield, endeavours, in its international and national capacity, to prevent and alleviate human suffering wherever it may be found. Its purpose is to protect life and health and to ensure respect for the human being. It promotes mutual understanding, friendship, co-operation and lasting peace among all peoples.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="IRC.CASEE.154">
                    <heading usage="edio">Impartiality</heading>
                    <p id="IRC.CASEE.141" usage="edio">It makes no discrimination as to nationality, race, religious beliefs, class or political opinions. It endeavours to relieve the suffering of individuals, being guided solely by their needs, and to give priority to the most urgent cases of distress.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="IRC.CASEE.155">
                    <heading usage="edio">Neutrality</heading>
                    <p id="IRC.CASEE.142" usage="edio">In order to continue to enjoy the confidence of all, the Movement may not take sides in hostilities or engage in contro­versies of a political, racial, religious or ideo­logical nature.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="IRC.CASEE.156">
                    <heading usage="edio">Independence</heading>
                    <p id="IRC.CASEE.143" usage="edio">The Movement is independent. The National Soci­eties, while auxiliaries in the humanitarian services of their governments and subject to national laws, must retain their autonomy so that they may always be able to act in accordance with the principles of the Movement.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="IRC.CASEE.157">
                    <heading usage="edio">Voluntary Service</heading>
                    <p id="IRC.CASEE.144" usage="edio">It is a voluntary relief movement not prompted by desire for gain.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="IRC.CASEE.158">
                    <heading usage="edio">Unity</heading>
                    <p id="IRC.CASEE.145" usage="edio">There can be only one Red Cross or Red Crescent Society in any one country. It must be open to all. It must carry on its humanitarian work throughout the territory.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="IRC.CASEE.159">
                    <heading usage="edio">Universality</heading>
                    <p id="IRC.CASEE.146">The International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement, in which all National Societies have equal status and share equal responsi­bi­li­ties and duties in helping each other, is worldwide.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section-alternates>
     <int-org-entry id="IRC-ICRC.IO.CASEE" iso="irc-icrc.io.casee" original-filename="gans24af.txt" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF">
          <int-org-entry-head>
               <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                    <org-entry-name>International Committee of the Red Cross</org-entry-name>
                    <abbr>ICRC</abbr>
               </int-org-name-group>
          </int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-block>
               <address-block>
                    <address type="POSTAL">
                         <verbatim-address>19 ave de la Paix, 1202 Geneva, Switzerland</verbatim-address>
                    </address>
                    <telephone alsofax="N">227346001</telephone>
                    <fax>227332057</fax>
                    <email>press@icrc.org</email>
                    <internet>www.icrc.org</internet>
               </address-block>
               <p id="IRC-ICRC.IO.3">Founded in 1863, the ICRC is at the origin of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement, and co-ordinates all international humanitarian activities conducted by the Movement in situations of conflict.</p>
               <p>The ICRC is an independent institution of a private character composed exclusively of Swiss nationals. Members are co-opted, and their total number may not exceed 25. The international character of the ICRC is based on its mission and not on its composition.</p>
          </int-org-block>
          <int-org-section id="IRC-ICRC.CASEE.178" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Organization</heading>
               <heading-note>April 2024</heading-note>
               <int-org-section id="IRC-ICRC.CASEE.180" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Assembly</heading>
                    <p>The Assembly is the supreme governing body of the ICRC. It formulates policy, defines the Committee's general objectives and strategies, oversees its activities, and approves its budget and accounts. The Assembly is composed of between 15 and 25 Swiss members of the ICRC (as at March 2024: 20), and is collegial in character. The President and Vice-Presidents of the ICRC hold the same offices in the Assembly.</p>
                    <dir-list>
                         <dir-entry id="IRC-ICRC.CASEE.152" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                              <dir-entry-name>President</dir-entry-name>
                              <person-group>
                                   <person>
                                        <person-name>
                                             <forename>Mirjana</forename>
                                             <surname>Spoljaric Egger</surname>
                                        </person-name>
                                   </person>
                              </person-group>
                         </dir-entry>
                    </dir-list>
               </int-org-section>
               <int-org-section id="IRC-ICRC.CASEE.181" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Assembly Council</heading>
                    <p>The Council (formerly the Executive Board) is a subsidiary body of the Assembly, to which the latter delegates certain of its responsibilities. It prepares the Assembly's activities and takes decisions on matters within its competence. The Council is composed of five members elected by the Assembly and is chaired by the President of the ICRC.</p>
               </int-org-section>
               <int-org-section id="IRC-ICRC.CASEE.182" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Directorate</heading>
                    <p>The Director­ate, headed by the Director-General, oversees the efficient running of the organization and is responsible for the application of the general objectives and institutional strategies decided by the Assembly. Members are appointed by the Assembly to serve a four-year term. The Executive Office of the Director-General, within the Directorate, includes departments of international law, policy and humanitarian diplomacy; mobilization, movement and partnerships; operations; protection and essential services; support and digital transformation; and people and culture.</p>
                    <dir-list>
                         <dir-entry id="IRC-ICRC.CASEE.158" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                              <dir-entry-name>Director-General</dir-entry-name>
                              <person-group>
                                   <person>
                                        <person-name>
                                             <forename>Pierre</forename>
                                             <surname>Krähenbühl</surname>
                                        </person-name>
                                        <person-note>Switzerland</person-note>
                                   </person>
                              </person-group>
                         </dir-entry>
                         <!--Kr&#228;henb&#252;hl - from 1.iv.24-->
                    </dir-list>
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IRC-ICRC.CASEE.183" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Activities</heading>
               <p usage="edio">The International Committee of the Red Cross was founded in 1863 in Geneva, by Henry Dunant and four of his friends. The original purpose of the Committee was to promote the foundation, in every country, of a voluntary relief society to assist wounded soldiers on the battlefield (the origin of the National Societies of the Red Cross or Red Crescent), as well as the adoption of a treaty protecting wounded soldiers and all those who come to their rescue. The mission of the ICRC was thereafter progressively extended through the Geneva Conventions.</p>
               <p>The ICRC promotes and monitors the application of international human­itarian law (IHL), provides legal protection and material assistance to military and civilian victims of wars (international wars, internal strife and disturbances), and also assists people affected by natural disasters in conflict zones, and vulnerable migrants (defined as all people who leave or flee their home to seek either safety or better prospects abroad, including refugees and asylum seekers).</p>
               <p>The ICRC targets its activities at the following groups: `affected populations/persons', com­prising civilians affected by confirmed or emerging violent situations of armed conflict, or who are no longer directly involved in such a conflict, people deprived of their freedom, and the wounded and sick (whether civilians or weapon bearers); and institutions and individuals with influence, i.e. official and unofficial authorities, armed forces and other weapon bearers, representatives of civil society, and ICRC National Societies. Groups at risk of exploitation—children (at risk of recruitment), women and girls (at risk of sexual violence), the elderly, the disabled, migrants, and internally displaced persons (IDPs)—are of particular concern.</p>
               <p>
         The 
        <i>ICRC Strategy 2024-2027</i>
        , adopted in December 2023, placed a focus on the following strategic orientations: strengthening relevance and impact (including a focus on upholding the centrality of protection and the organization’s role as a neutral intermediary, and on enhancing impacts in acute and protracted phases of conflicts); and bolstering organizational readiness and efficiency (including optimizing risk management and financial stability, accelerating digital transformation, and enhancing skills, trust, cohesion and responsibility). The following were designated as cross-cutting elements: security management and duty of care; accountability to affected populations; communication; gender diversity and inclusion; impact, evaluation, learning and innovation; and climate and conflict (with a focus on reinforcing IHL aimed at environmental protection and supporting conflict-affected communities to adapt to climate change and to mitigate environmental degradation).
      </p>
               <int-org-section id="IRC-ICRC.CASEE.184" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Support for IHL</heading>
                    <p>Since its inception the ICRC has been a leader in the process of improving and complementing IHL. In 1864 12 states attending a Diplomatic Conference in Geneva signed the First Geneva Convention—an ICRC international treaty for `the Amelioration of the Condition of the Wounded in Armies in the Field'—thereby binding themselves to respect as neutral wounded soldiers and those assisting them. IHL was subsequently advanced to protect new categories of war victims, keeping pace with developments in technology and weaponry, in the scale and types of conflicts, and in the numbers of prisoners, IDPs and refugees generated by conflicts. On 12 August 1949, following a process of negotiations in the aftermath of the Second World War, four modern Geneva Conventions were adopted (comprising two revised and two new treaties), as follows: I—to protect wounded and sick in armed forces on land, as well as medical personnel; II—to protect the same categories of people at sea, as well as the shipwrecked; III—concerning the treatment of prisoners of war; IV—for the protection of civilians in time of war. Two Additional Protocols were adopted on 8 June 1977, for the protection of victims in international armed conflicts (Protocol I) and in non-international armed conflicts (Protocol II). A further Additional Protocol (Protocol III), endorsing the red crystal—deemed to be a neutral symbol devoid of political or religious connotations—as an additional emblem of the Movement, entered into force in January 2007. The ICRC maintains databases on National Implementation of IHL; Customary IHL; and on Treaties, States Parties and Commentaries. The ICRC published a series of commentaries on IHL, detailing practical guidance on its implementation, in the 1950s. Updated commentaries were released in 2016 (for Geneva Convention I), in 2017 (Convention II), and in June 2020 (for Convention III). By January 2024 there were 196 states parties to the Geneva Conventions; furthermore, 174 states were parties to Protocol I, 169 to Protocol II and 79 to Protocol III.</p>
                    <!--The 29th International Conference, held in Geneva in June 2006, approved membership of the Palestinian Red Crescent Society and the Israeli society Magen David Adom-->
                    <p>The ICRC participated in drafting the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which was adopted by the UN General Assembly in May 2000 and entered into force in February 2002, raising from 15 to 18 years the minimum age for recruitment in armed conflict. The ICRC supports the Paris Commitments and Guidelines, endorsed by an international conference convened in February 2007, with the aim of ending the recruitment of children, supporting the release of children from the armed forces, and facilitating their reintegration into civilian life. The ICRC assisted with the preparation of the International Convention for the Protection of all Persons from Enforced Disappearance, which entered into force in December 2020; it represented the first international treaty to prohibit practices facilitating enforced disappearance.</p>
                    <p>With the aim of ensuring that they are knowledgeable about and comply with IHL, ICRC delegates meet with weapon bearers present in conflict zones, including the state military and police, armed groups, and the staff of private military companies. A Senior Workshop on International Rules Governing Military Operations (SWIRMO) is organized regularly by the ICRC to provide guidance to combatants.</p>
                    <p>An ICRC Advisory Service, established in 1996, supports national authorities with the implementation of IHL.</p>
               </int-org-section>
               <int-org-section id="ICRC.IO.HUMANITARIAN.OPS.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Humanitarian Activities</heading>
                    <p>The ICRC consistently urges respect for the Geneva Conventions; for civilians and civilian infrastructure; for unrestricted access to humanitarian aid organizations; and for access to monitor conditions in detention facilities.</p>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Restoring Links</heading>
                         <p>The ICRC's Restoring Family Links programme works to reunite family members separated by conflict, natural disasters and migration. A Central Tracing Agency (CTA) acts as a neutral intermediary, gathering and passing on relevant information. During 2020-25 the CTA was undergoing a reform process that aimed to enhance its capacity to employ new digital techniques and to manage and analyse data on a large scale. In March 2022 a CTA Bureau for the International Conflict between the Russian Federation and Ukraine was established. An ICRC online tracing tool was temporarily suspended from January of that year in response to a cyber attack targeting stored personal data. The ICRC’s Trace the Face initiative, launched in 2013, aims to connect families divided by recent migration (particularly to Europe) by posting online photographs of missing relatives.</p>
                         <p>The ICRC’s Missing Persons Project, initiated in 2018, gathers experts, practitioners, institutions, and representatives of states and of families, with a view to preventing disappearances, discovering the whereabouts of people who have gone missing, and providing support to bereft families of missing people.</p>
                         <p>During 2022 the ICRC visited 815,117 prisoners (of whom 57,619 were women and 14,492 were children) in 916 places of detention. Some 6,095 family visits to detainees were also facilitated. The ICRC collected 159,265 and distributed 124,550 Red Cross Messages (RCMs) in that year—including 15,300 RCMs collected from and 8,831 distributed to detainees—and also facilitated 2,044,749 telephone calls between family members. In total, 10,332 individuals who were the subject of tracing requests were located, and 957 people were reunited with their families. Some 2,964 unaccompanied minors and separated children were newly registered in 2022, including 131 unaccompanied demobilized children. Furthermore, travel documents were issued to 333 people, and official documentation was delivered across borders or military front lines to 628 recipients.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Health</heading>
                         <p>The ICRC works to ensure that people affected by conflict can receive good-quality basic health care, as well as mental health and psychosocial support. The organization either uses pre-existing health services or temporarily replaces them. In 2022 it provided assistance to 786 health centres and to 706 hospitals. It paid for the hospital treatment of 674,284 patients and supported some 322 physical rehabilitation projects. Some 12,072 hospital admissions for the surgical treatment of weapon wounds were facilitated (including 1,694 admissions related to injuries caused by mines or other explosive remnants of war). Rehabilitation services, including physiotherapy and the provision of prosthetics and orthotics, are supported.</p>
                         <p>From 2020 the ICRC advocated for the inclusion of marginalized populations (for example, detainees, migrants, IDPs and refugees) in anti-COVID-19 vaccination programmes.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Addressing Sexual Violence</heading>
                         <p>The ICRC’s Prevention of Sexual Violence Programme focuses on reducing the risk of perpetration of sexual violence by weapon bearers and enhancing the resilience of conflict-affected communities. The ICRC assists survivors by facilitating the provision of medical care, psychosocial and mental health care, protection services, and legal aid, with an emphasis on the need for comprehensive, holistic support.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Economic Security</heading>
                         <p>The ICRC’s so-called EcoSoc activities aim to ensure that communities, households and individuals in conflict zones or other crisis-affected areas can—sustainably and with dignity—cover their essential needs, such as basic shelter, food, clothing, hygiene necessities, necessary livelihood assets, and the costs of education and health care. Relief activities aim to restore food consumption and to ensure the availability of essential household items. Livelihood-support activities may include training, assistance for microeconomic initiatives, the provision of cash transfers, and the distribution of seeds or agricultural tools. Initiatives are also undertaken to build up the capacities of key local institutions to improve local services. In 2022 the ICRC distributed food to 6m. beneficiaries, and provided assistance for food production to 8.1m. people, income support to 1.8m., and essential life support items to 5.4m.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Forensic Action</heading>
                         <p>The ICRC promotes forensic best practices, including the dignified treatment and identification of deceased people. The ICRC works to resolve situations where individuals are unaccounted for, for example as a consequence of armed violence, disasters or migration. It provides training, advisory services and infrastructural support to forensic practitioners and institutions.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Mine Action</heading>
                         <p>
            The ICRC raises awareness of the so-called weapon contamination of conflict and post-conflict areas—i.e. the prevalence of explosive remnants of war that maim, kill, and deprive local people of access to farmland, water, and essential services such as education and health care. The ICRC supports the implementation of the 1997 Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on their Destruction. ICRC medical teams provide prosthetic limbs and physiotherapy for people who have been physically disabled by weapon contamination and broader conflict. In April 1998 the Swiss Government established a Geneva International Centre for Humanitarian Demining, in co-operation with the UN and the ICRC. In June 2020 the ICRC issued a 
            <publ-name>Checklist: Domestic measures to implement the Anti-Personnel Mine Ban Convention.</publ-name>
                         </p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Water and Habitat</heading>
                         <p>The ICRC repairs damaged critical water supply and sewage infrastructure to ensure continuous water supplies, including of clean drinking water, and hygienic sustainable living environments in conflict zones. In 2022 the ICRC’s activities in the areas of water, sanitation and construction benefitted 53m. people.</p>
                    </p-group>
               </int-org-section>
               <int-org-section id="ICRC.IO.OPS.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Operations</heading>
                    <p>In 2024 the ICRC was active in more than 100 countries. In February the ICRC appealed for funding for major operations in Ukraine (allocated some 258.3m. Swiss francs); the Syrian Arab Republic (142.2m.), Yemen (126.2m.), Afghanistan (106.9m.), Ethiopia (85.9m.), Somalia (80.3m.), the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC, 79.9m.), and Israel and the Occupied Territories (77.5m.).</p>
                    <p>Following the Russian Federation’s military invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, the ICRC and IFRC undertook emergency response operations within Ukraine, and in neighbouring countries that were receiving a rapid mass exodus of Ukrainian refugees. During 2023 the ICRC’s activities in Ukraine included the provision of food parcels to more than 320,000 people; cash assistance to enable more than 350,000 beneficiaries acquire essential items; and access to housing reconstruction materials for more than 10.5m. people. Since 2011 the ICRC, the Syrian Arab Red Crescent (SARC), and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies worked in close co-operation to maximize the efficiency of their response to the severe humanitarian crisis caused by the civil war in Syria. Furthermore, the Red Cross and Red Crescent network in neighbouring countries has supported the large population of Syrian refugees. In 2019 the ICRC, SARC and the Norwegian Red Cross supported the establishment of a field hospital at the large, overcrowded al-Hol detention camp in north-eastern Syria. Initiatives that were undertaken within Syria during 2023 included water and habitat interventions that benefitted 14.7m. people; and facilitating access for nearly 205,300 people to healthcare services through 11 SARC polyclinics and 12 ICRC-supported mobile health units. The ICRC’s activities in Afghanistan during 2023 included enabling 1.2m. patients (mainly women and children) to access primary health care at 14 Afghan Red Crescent Society health facilities; organizing physiotherapy sessions for 133,482 patients; and transferring multipurpose emergency cash to 10,446 vulnerable households.</p>
                    <p>The ICRC condemned the lethal attacks initiated by Islamist militants on 7 October 2023 on Israeli territory, and demanded the release of all hostages that were taken at that time. The ICRC also emphasized that there was no justification for the `limitless destruction of Gaza’ under Israel’s retaliatory military operation. Support was offered to Israel and Palestine, in close co-operation with Israel’s Magen David Adom (MDA) and the Palestine Red Crescent Society (PRCS), and with other partners on the ground. Activities undertaken by the ICRC during the period 7 October 2023-29 February 2024 included promoting dialogue on respect for and obligations under IHL; the facilitation of the return of 109 hostages from Gaza to their families, and the return of 154 Palestinians from Israeli places of detention to their families; attempts to secure the release of 134 remaining hostages held in Gaza, and to ensure their humane treatment, access to adequate health care, and access to the ICRC and family contact; attempts to discover from the Israeli authorities the whereabouts of several thousand Palestinians held in Israeli detention, and to bring about the resumption of ICRC visits and family contacts for them; the establishment of three dedicated hotlines, in Arabic, Hebrew and English, for families divided by the conflict; the management of 6,888 requests from family members regarding the whereabouts of loved ones; engagement with the families of 5,118 Palestinians reported missing in Gaza; the distribution of 11,164 forensic items to enable the dignified management of human remains; the extension of cash transfers to vulnerable beneficiaries in Gaza (redeemed as at 29 February by 39,665 individuals); the provision of accommodation to 341,213 IDPs outside UN shelters in Gaza; the supply of essential household items, including tarpaulins, hygiene kits, blankets and jerrycans to vulnerable people in Gaza; the provision of highly nutritional food bars to vulnerable young children, pregnant women and lactating mothers there; the delivery of 167 metric tons of medical supplies (including wound dressing sets, weapon-wounded kits, and other emergency medical sets); the deployment of two surgical teams in Gaza; the provision of 2,097 early physical rehabilitation sessions to patients at the European Gaza Hospital; the provision of training to support Israel’s Association of Rape Crisis Centres to extend mental health and psychosocial support tailored for victims of sexual violence in armed conflict; and the facilitation of access to clean water for more than 1m. people in the Gaza Strip.</p>
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IRC-ICRC.CASEE.185" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Finance</heading>
               <p>The ICRC's work is financed by a voluntary annual grant from governments parties to the Geneva Conventions, the European Commission, voluntary contributions from National Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, and by gifts and legacies from private donors. In February 2024 the ICRC appealed for 2,100m. Swiss francs to fund its operations during 2024; of the total, 244m. Swiss francs was to be allocated to the ICRC’s headquarters, and 1,900m. Swiss francs to field operations (of which: 67% was for essential services, 16% for protection, and 9% for prevention activities).</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IRC-ICRC.CASEE.186" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Publications</heading>
               <publ-list>
                    <publ-entry>
                         <publ-name>Annual Report</publ-name>
                    </publ-entry>
                    <publ-entry>
                         <publ-name>The Geneva Conventions</publ-name>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">texts and commentaries</content-note>
                    </publ-entry>
                    <publ-entry>
                         <publ-name>ICRC News</publ-name>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">weekly</content-note>
                    </publ-entry>
                    <publ-entry>
                         <publ-name>IHL Bibliography</publ-name>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">quarterly</content-note>
                    </publ-entry>
                    <publ-entry>
                         <publ-name>International Review of the Red Cross</publ-name>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">quarterly in English and French; annually in Arabic, Russian and Spanish</content-note>
                    </publ-entry>
                    <publ-entry>
                         <publ-name>The Additional Protocols</publ-name>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">texts and commentaries</content-note>
                    </publ-entry>
                    <p>A Geneva-based Resource Centre maintains various publications on subjects of Red Cross/Red Crescent interest, and extensive background material (IHL case law, historic documents, medical studies, etc.). The ICRC’s online IHL databases include IHL texts, status of implementation information, commentaries, etc.</p>
               </publ-list>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-entry>
     <int-org-entry id="IRC-FED.IO.CASEE" iso="irc-fed.io.casee" original-filename="gans24af.txt" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF">
          <int-org-entry-head>
               <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                    <org-entry-name>International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies</org-entry-name>
               </int-org-name-group>
          </int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-block>
               <address-block>
                    <address type="POSTAL">
                         <verbatim-address>Postfach 303, CH-1211 Geneva 19, Switzerland</verbatim-address>
                    </address>
                    <telephone alsofax="N">227304222</telephone>
                    <fax>227304200</fax>
                    <email>secretariat@ifrc.org</email>
                    <internet>www.ifrc.org</internet>
               </address-block>
               <p id="IRC-FED.IO.54">The Federation was founded in 1919 (as the League of Red Cross Societies). It works on the basis of the Principles of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement to inspire, facilitate and promote all forms of humanitar­ian activities by the National Societies, with a view to preventing and alleviating human suffering, and thereby contributing to the maintenance and promotion of peace in the world. The Federation acts as the official representative of its member societies in the field. It has permanent observer status with the UN.</p>
               <int-org-section id="IRC-FED.CASEE.198" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Members</heading>
                    <p>National Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies in 192 countries, and Magen David Adom, Israel's equivalent of the Red Cross or Red Crescent Society.</p>
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-block>
          <int-org-section id="IRC-FED.CASEE.199" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Organization</heading>
               <heading-note>April 2024</heading-note>
               <int-org-section id="IRC-FED.CASEE.200" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
                    <heading>General Assembly</heading>
                    <p>The General Assembly is the highest authority of the Federation and meets every two years in commission sessions (for development, disaster relief, health and community services, and youth) and plenary sessions. It is composed of representatives from all National Societies that are members of the Federation.</p>
               </int-org-section>
               <int-org-section id="IRC-FED.CASEE.201" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Governing Board</heading>
                    <p>The Board meets every six months and is composed of the President of the Federation, five Vice-Presidents, representatives of 20 National Societies elected by the Assembly, and the Chairpersons of the Finance Commission and the Youth Commission. Its functions include the implementation of decisions of the General Assembly; it also has powers to act between meetings of the Assembly.</p>
                    <dir-list>
                         <dir-entry id="IRC-FED.CASEE.183.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                              <dir-entry-name>President</dir-entry-name>
                              <person-group>
                                   <person>
                                        <person-name>
                                             <forename>Kate</forename>
                                             <surname>Forbes</surname>
                                        </person-name>
                                        <person-note>USA</person-note>
                                   </person>
                              </person-group>
                         </dir-entry>
                    </dir-list>
               </int-org-section>
               <int-org-section id="IO-IRC.FED.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="edio">
                    <heading>Regional Offices</heading>
                    <org-list>
                         <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>Africa</org-entry-name>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Woodlands Rd, POB 41275, Nairobi 00100, Kenya</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">(20) 2835000</telephone>
                                   <email>mohammedomer.mukhier@ifrc.org</email>
                                   <internet>ifrcgo.org/africa</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <role-group>
                                   <role>Dir</role>
                                   <person>
                                        <person-name>
                                             <forename>Mohammed Omer</forename>
                                             <surname>Mukhier-Abuzein</surname>
                                        </person-name>
                                   </person>
                              </role-group>
                         </org-entry>
                         <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>Americas</org-entry-name>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>115 Avda Vicente Bonilla, Ciudad del Saber, Clayton, Panama City, Panama</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <email>martha.keays@ifrc.org</email>
                              </address-block>
                              <role-group>
                                   <role>Dir</role>
                                   <person>
                                        <person-name>
                                             <forename>Martha</forename>
                                             <surname>Keays</surname>
                                        </person-name>
                                   </person>
                              </role-group>
                         </org-entry>
                         <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>Asia and the Pacific</org-entry-name>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Menara Tokio Marine Life, Level 10, 189 Jalan Tun Razak, 50400 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">(39) 207-5700</telephone>
                                   <email>alexander.matheou@ifrc.org</email>
                              </address-block>
                              <role-group>
                                   <role>Dir</role>
                                   <person>
                                        <person-name>
                                             <forename>Alexander</forename>
                                             <surname>Matheou</surname>
                                        </person-name>
                                   </person>
                              </role-group>
                         </org-entry>
                         <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>Europe</org-entry-name>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Váci u. 30, 1132 Budapest, Hungary</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">(1) 888-4500</telephone>
                                   <email>birgitte.ebbesen@ifrc.org</email>
                              </address-block>
                              <role-group>
                                   <role>Dir</role>
                                   <person>
                                        <person-name>
                                             <forename>Birgitte</forename>
                                             <surname>Bischoff Ebbesen</surname>
                                        </person-name>
                                   </person>
                              </role-group>
                         </org-entry>
                         <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>Middle East and North Africa</org-entry-name>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Hazmiyeh, Mount Lebanon Governorate, Beirut, Lebanon</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">(5) 428444</telephone>
                                   <email>hossam.elsharkawi@ifrc.org</email>
                              </address-block>
                              <role-group>
                                   <role>Dir</role>
                                   <person>
                                        <person-name>
                                             <forename>Hossam</forename>
                                             <surname>Elsharkawi</surname>
                                        </person-name>
                                   </person>
                              </role-group>
                         </org-entry>
                    </org-list>
               </int-org-section>
               <int-org-section id="IRC-FED.CASEE.203" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Secretariat</heading>
                    <p>The Secretary-General is assisted by Under-Secretaries-General for Global Relations, Humanitarian Diplomacy and Digitalization; Management Policy, Strategy and Corporate Services; and National Society Development and Operations Co-ordination. The Secretary-General may also nominate honorary and special envoys for specific situations.</p>
                    <dir-list>
                         <dir-entry id="IRC-FED.CASEE.191" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                              <dir-entry-name>Secretary-General</dir-entry-name>
                              <person-group>
                                   <person>
                                        <person-name>
                                             <forename>Jagan</forename>
                                             <surname>Chapagain</surname>
                                        </person-name>
                                        <person-note>Nepal</person-note>
                                   </person>
                              </person-group>
                         </dir-entry>
                    </dir-list>
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IRC-FED.CASEE.204" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Activities</heading>
               <p>In December 2019 the Assembly adopted Strategy 2030, which detailed five challenges to be prioritized by the Federation and its member National Societies during 2021-30: climate change (designated as a `threat multiplier’—increasing uncertainties and displacement); crisis and disasters; health; migration and identity; and values, power and inclusion. Seven `transformations’, i.e. goals for strengthening the Federation’s work as a network, were identified: strong local actors; a distributed network; a trusted organization; volunteering and youth; influencing humanitarian action; digital transformation; and financing. The Strategy emphasized that ongoing global challenges were inseparable from each other; that they were compounded by poverty, disease, displacement and conflict; and that they interlinked, also, with urbanization and population expansion—which placed increased pressure on natural resources, including on the demand for water and for food.</p>
               <p>The IFRC hosts the secretariat of the Steering Committee for Humanitarian Response (SCHR), which comprises nine humanitarian organizations, including the IFRC and ICRC, Caritas, Oxfam and Save the Children.</p>
               <int-org-section id="IRC-FED.CASEE.205" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Disaster Response</heading>
                    <p>The Federation supports the establishment of emergency response units (ERUs) that comprise trained specialists and are deployable at short notice for up to a four-month operational period. ERUs may cover: basic health care; hospital referrals; logistics, information technology and telecommunications; and water and sanitation. The Federation advises National Societies in relief health. Within the UN `Cluster Approach' framework of co-ordinating the international response to humanitarian disasters, the Federation is the designated lead agency for the Emergency Protection (in natural disasters) cluster. In the event of a disaster the following areas are covered: communicable disease alleviation and vaccination; psychological support and stress management; health education; the provision of medicines; and the organization of mobile clinics and nursing care. The Societies also distribute food and clothing to those in need and assist in the provision of shelter and adequate sanitation facilities and in the management of refugee camps. IFRC maintains an online platform, IFRC GO, which collates, analyzes and shares real-time data on crises. A Disaster Relief Emergency Fund (DREF) was established in 1985 to ensure the availability of immediate financial support to National Societies for response actions to small- or medium-scale disasters. In January 2021 the IFRC announced that the size of the DREF would be increased to 300m. Swiss francs by 2025 (pledging conferences were convened in October 2021, November 2022 and in November 2023 to promote this goal), and that, through an Anticipatory Pillar—it would increasingly pursue a Forecast-based Financing (FbF) approach—using meteorological forecast information in tandem with risk analysis to facilitate access to humanitarian funding to support early and preventive action. In 2022 the DREF extended 74m. Swiss francs to support 160 emergency operations aimed at assisting 15m. people in 92 countries.</p>
                    <p>At March 2024 37 ongoing emergency appeals amounted to 2,334m. Swiss francs. At that time 42% of the total funding requirements had been pledged. Major appeals included 800m. Swiss francs to support people in Ukraine and in nearby countries impacted by the Russian Federation-Ukraine conflict; 400m. Swiss francs and 100m. Swiss francs, respectively, to support the survivors of the major earthquakes that in February 2023 had devastated parts of Türkiye and Syria; and nearly 233m. Swiss francs to support people affected by hunger in Africa.</p>
                    <p>
          In October 2023 the IFRC Secretary-General and ICRC Director-General issued a joint statement in which they stated that they were appalled at the human misery that was unfolding in Israel and Gaza (see under ICRC). They emphasized that civilian life must be protected on all sides, and called on all parties to abide by their obligations under international humanitarian law. The IFRC Governing Board also urged all parties to prioritize the safety and well being of civilians, and called for unimpeded humanitarian access to Gaza. An emergency appeal for 86m. Swiss francs was issued 
          
          for the `Middle East—Complex Emergency Crisis’.
        </p>
                    <!--DREF annual report issued in April IFRC thematic funding-->
               </int-org-section>
               <int-org-section id="IRC-FED.CASEE.206" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Development</heading>
                    <p>The Federation undertakes capacity-building activities with the National Societies to train and develop staff and volunteers and to improve management structures and processes, in particular in the area of disaster management. Activities undertaken in the health sector aim to strengthen existing health services and to promote community-based health care and first aid; the prevention of HIV/AIDS and substance abuse; and health education and family planning initiatives. Blood donor programmes are often undertaken by National Societies, sometimes in conjunction with the World Health Organization (WHO). The IFRC is a member, with WHO, UNICEF and Médecins Sans Frontières, of the International Coordinating Group (ICG) on Vaccine Provision—which, in January 2021, established a global stockpile of Ebola vaccines. In January 2024 the IFRC recommended the establishment of global vaccine bank. The Federation also promotes the establishment and development of education and service programmes for children and for other more vulnerable members of society, including the elderly and disabled.</p>
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IRC-FED.CASEE.207" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Finance</heading>
               <p id="IRC-FED.CASEE.196">The permanent secretariat of the Federation is financed by the contributions of member Societies on a pro rata basis. Each relief action is financed by separate, voluntary contributions, and development programme projects are also financed on a voluntary basis.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IRC-FED.CASEE.208" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Publications</heading>
               <publ-list>
                    <publ-entry>
                         <publ-name>Annual Report</publ-name>
                    </publ-entry>
                    <publ-entry>
                         <publ-name>Handbook of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement</publ-name>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">with the ICRC</content-note>
                    </publ-entry>
                    <publ-entry>
                         <publ-name>Red Cross/Red Crescent Magazine</publ-name>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">online</content-note>
                    </publ-entry>
                    <publ-entry>
                         <publ-name>World Disasters Report</publ-name>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">annually</content-note>
                    </publ-entry>
                    <p id="IRC-FED.CASEE.197">Newsletters, country reports, guides and manuals for Red Cross and Red Crescent activities.</p>
               </publ-list>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-entry>
     <int-org-section id="IRC.IO.FED.GEN.001" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="edio">
          <heading>Summary of the Four Geneva Conventions</heading>
          <legal-block>
               <p>The four Geneva Conventions summarized below were adopted on 12 August 1949 by the Diplomatic Conference for the Establishment of International Conventions for the Protection of Victims of War, convened in Geneva, Switzerland, from 21 April-12 August 1949. The Conventions entered into force on 21 October 1950. Some of the text is common to all four Conventions, notably that dealing with the following: the circumstances in which the Conventions are to be applied (Articles 1-3 of the First Convention); scrutiny of how the Conventions are applied (Articles 8-11 of the First Convention); making the Conventions widely known and enforcing penal sanctions for any breach (Articles 47-53 of the First Convention).</p>
          </legal-block>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IRC.IO.GEN.002" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="edio">
          <heading>First Geneva Convention</heading>
          <heading-note>The Geneva Convention for the Amelioration of the Condition of the Wounded and Sick in Armed Forces in the Field</heading-note>
          <legal-block>
               <p>
                    <sc>Chapter I: General Provisions</sc>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 1-3</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>1. Persons taking no active part in the hostilities, including members of armed forces who have laid down their arms and those placed hors de combat by sickness, wounds, detention or any other cause, shall in all circumstances be treated humanely, without any adverse distinction founded on race, colour, religion or faith, sex, birth or wealth. The following acts are prohibited at any time and in any place whatsoever with respect to the above mentioned persons: violence to life and person, in particular murder, mutilation, cruel treatment and torture; taking of hostages; outrages upon personal dignity, in particular humiliating and degrading treatment; the passing of sentences and the carrying out of executions without previous judgment pronounced by a regularly constituted court, affording all the judicial guarantees which are recognized as indispensable by civilized peoples.</p>
                    </item>
                    <item>
                         <p>2. The wounded and sick shall be collected and cared for.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 4-7</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Neutral Powers shall apply the provisions of the Convention to the wounded and sick, medical personnel and chaplains of the armed forces of the Parties to the conflict, received or interned in their territory, as well as to dead persons found. For the protected persons who have fallen into the hands of the enemy, the present Convention shall apply until their final repatriation.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 8-11</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>The present Convention shall be applied with the cooperation and under the scrutiny of the Protecting Powers whose duty it is to safeguard the interests of the Parties to the conflict. For this purpose the Protecting Powers may appoint, apart from their diplomatic or consular staff, delegates from among their own nationals or the nationals of other neutral Powers. The provisions of the Convention constitute no obstacle to the humanitarian activities of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) or any other impartial humanitarian organization. The Detaining Power may request that a neutral state or a humanitarian organization, such as the ICRC, undertake the functions of a Protecting Power. Where there is disagreement between the Parties to the conflict as to the application of the Convention, the Protecting Powers shall assist in settling the disagreement.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
          </legal-block>
          <legal-block>
               <p>
                    <sc>Chapter II: Wounded and Sick</sc>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 12-13</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Members of the armed forces and other persons mentioned below, who are wounded or sick, shall be respected and protected in all circumstances. They shall be treated humanely and cared for by the Party to the conflict in whose power they may be, without any adverse distinction founded on sex, race, nationality, religion, political opinions, or any other similar criteria. Any attempts upon their lives, or violence to their persons, shall be strictly prohibited: they shall not be murdered or exterminated, subjected to torture or to biological experiments; they shall not wilfully be left without medical assistance and care, nor shall conditions exposing them to contagion or infection be created. Only urgent medical reasons will authorize priority in the order of treatment to be administered. Women shall be treated with all consideration due to their sex. The Convention applies to the wounded and sick of members of the armed forces of a Party to the conflict, including militias and volunteer corps; members of other militias and volunteer corps, including organized resistance movements; members of regular armed forces who profess allegiance to a government not recognized by the Detaining Power; authorized persons who accompany the armed forces (e.g. civil members of military air crews, war correspondents, supply contractors, and members of labour units and welfare services); members of the merchant marine and crews of civil aircraft; and inhabitants of a non-occupied territory who take arms to resist invading forces.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 14-18</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>The wounded and sick of a belligerent who fall into enemy hands shall be prisoners of war and the provisions of international law concerning prisoners of war shall apply to them. Parties to the conflict shall take all possible measures to search for and collect the wounded and sick, to protect them against pillage and ill-treatment, to ensure their adequate care, and to search for the dead and prevent their being despoiled. When possible a suspension of fire shall be arranged to permit the removal, exchange and transport of the wounded left on the battlefield, or from a besieged or encircled area. Parties to the conflict shall record the particulars of each wounded, sick or dead person of the adverse Party falling into their hands and forward the information to the Information Bureau for prisoners of war (established under the Third Convention: see below); this information is to include certificates of death or authenticated lists of the dead. Documents or articles of importance to the next of kin shall be collected and forwarded through the same Bureau. The dead are to be identified and honourably interred, and their graves marked and registered. The military authorities may appeal to the charity of the inhabitants voluntarily to collect and care for the wounded and sick. No-one may ever be molested or convicted for having nursed the wounded or sick.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
          </legal-block>
          <legal-block>
               <p>
                    <sc>Chapter III: Medical Units and Establishments</sc>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 19-21</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Hospitals and mobile medical units may in no circumstances be attacked, but are to be respected and protected by the Parties to the conflict. If they fall into the hands of the adverse Party their personnel shall be free to pursue their duties. This protection shall not cease unless the hospitals or medical units are used to commit acts harmful to the enemy, and then only if due warning is given. Hospital zones may be established to protect the wounded and sick from the effects of war, and the Parties concerned may conclude agreements on mutual recognition of such zones. The Protecting Powers and the ICRC are invited to lend their good offices to facilitate the institution and recognition of hospital zones.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
          </legal-block>
          <legal-block>
               <p>
                    <sc>Chapter IV: Personnel</sc>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 24-32</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Medical personnel exclusively engaged in the search for, or the collection, transport or treatment of the wounded or sick, or in the prevention of disease, administrative staff of medical units, and chaplains attached to the armed forces, shall be respected and protected in all circumstances; likewise the staff of National Red Cross Societies and of other authorized voluntary aid societies. If these personnel fall into the hands of the adverse Party they shall be retained only in so far as the health and spiritual needs of prisoners of war require: they shall not be deemed prisoners of war, and if not indispensable they shall be returned to the Party to the conflict to whom they belong, as soon as possible. Members of the armed forces specially trained as hospital orderlies, nurses or stretcher bearers shall likewise be respected and protected if they are carrying out these duties when they come into contact with the enemy; if captured they shall be prisoners of war, but shall be employed on their medical duties as the need arises. Medical personnel from a neutral country may not be detained.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
          </legal-block>
          <legal-block>
               <p>
                    <sc>Chapter V: Buildings and Material</sc>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 33-34</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>The material of mobile medical units of the armed forces which fall into the hands of the enemy shall be reserved for the care of the wounded and sick. The buildings, material and stores of fixed medical establishments of the armed forces may not be diverted from that purpose as long as they are required for the care of the wounded and sick, except in cases of urgent military necessity, when other arrangements must first be made for the welfare of the patients. The material and stores defined above shall not be intentionally destroyed. The right of requisition recognized for belligerents by the laws and customs of war shall not be exercised except in case of urgent necessity, and only after the welfare of the wounded and sick has been ensured.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
          </legal-block>
          <legal-block>
               <p>
                    <sc>Chapter VI: Medical transports</sc>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 35-37</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Transports of wounded and sick or of medical equipment shall be respected and protected. If captured, the care of the wounded and sick that they contain must be ensured. Medical aircraft (bearing agreed identifying marks and flying at agreed heights, times and routes) shall not be attacked, but respected by the belligerents. Unless agreed otherwise, flights over enemy or enemy-occupied territory are prohibited. Such aircraft may fly over or land on the territory of neutral Powers, by agreement with the latter. Unless agreed otherwise between the neutral Power and the Parties to the conflict, the wounded and sick who are disembarked on neutral territory shall be detained by the neutral Power, where so required by international law, in such a manner that they cannot again take part in operations of war.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
          </legal-block>
          <legal-block>
               <p>
                    <sc>Chapter VII: The Distinctive Emblem</sc>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 38-44</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>As a compliment to Switzerland, the heraldic emblem of the red cross on a white ground (formed by reversing the Federal colours of Switzerland) is retained as the emblem and distinctive sign of the Medical Service of armed forces. The red crescent or the red lion and sun on a white ground are also recognized by the Convention. The emblem is to be used on flags, armlets and identity cards. The distinctive flag shall be hoisted only over such medical units as are entitled to be respected under the convention, and only with the consent of the military authorities.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
          </legal-block>
          <legal-block>
               <p>
                    <sc>Chapter VIII: Execution of the Convention</sc>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 45-48</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Each Party to the conflict, acting through its commander-in-chief, shall ensure the detailed execution of the preceding Articles. The High Contracting Parties undertake, in time of peace as in war, to disseminate the text of the Convention as widely as possible and to encourage the study of the text in programmes of military and civil instruction, so that the principles thereof may become known to the entire population, in particular to the armed fighting forces, the medical personnel and the chaplains.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
          </legal-block>
          <legal-block>
               <p>
                    <sc>Chapter IX: Repression of Abuses and Infractions</sc>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 49-54</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>The High Contracting Parties undertake to enact any legislation necessary to provide effective penal sanctions for persons committing, or ordering to be committed, grave breaches of the Convention. Each High Contracting Party shall be under the obligation to search for these persons and shall bring them, regardless of their nationality, before its own courts, or hand them over to another High Contracting Party for trial. In all circumstances, the accused persons shall benefit by safeguards of proper trial and defence. Grave breaches comprise any of the following acts, if committed against persons or property protected by the Convention: wilful killing, torture or inhuman treatment, including biological experiments, wilfully causing great suffering or serious injury to body or health, and extensive destruction and appropriation of property, not justified by military necessity and carried out unlawfully and wantonly. At the request of a Party to the conflict, an enquiry shall be instituted, in a manner to be decided between the interested Parties, concerning any alleged violation of the Convention: once the violation has been established, the Parties to the conflict shall repress it with the least possible delay. The unauthorized use of the emblem or designation `Red Cross’ or `Geneva Cross’ or any imitation thereof, shall be prohibited.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
          </legal-block>
          <legal-block>
               <p>
                    <sc>Final Provisions</sc>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 55-64</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>These Articles concern details of the translation, signature and ratification of the Convention. Article 63 states that each of the High Contracting Parties shall be at liberty to denounce the present Convention: the denunciation shall be notified in writing to the Swiss Federal Council, which shall then transmit it to the Governments of all the High Contracting Parties, and it shall take effect one year after the notification. If the denouncing Power is involved in a conflict, the denunciation shall not take effect until peace has been concluded, and until after operations connected with the release and repatriation of persons protected by the Convention have been terminated.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
          </legal-block>
          <legal-block>
               <p>
                    <sc>Annexes</sc>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Annex I is a draft agreement relating to the establishment of hospital zones (as mentioned in Article 23, above). Annex II concerns the suggested wording of an identity card for medical and religious personnel attached to the armed forces.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
          </legal-block>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-IRC.GEN.CONV.2" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="edio">
          <heading>Second Geneva Convention</heading>
          <heading-note>The Geneva Convention for the Amelioration of the Condition of Wounded, Sick and Shipwrecked Members of Armed Forces at Sea</heading-note>
          <legal-block>
               <p>The text of this Convention is largely identical to that of the First Geneva Convention, except where it specifically refers to those involved in war at sea.</p>
               <p>
                    <i>Article 4</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>In case of hostilities between land and naval forces of Parties to the conflict, the provisions of the present Convention shall apply only on board ship. Forces put ashore shall immediately become subject to the provisions of the First Geneva Convention.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <i>Article 12</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Members of the armed forces and other persons in the categories specified in Article 13 of the First Geneva convention (above), who are at sea and who are wounded, sick or shipwrecked, shall be respected and protected in all circumstances, it being understood that the term `shipwreck’ means shipwreck from any cause and includes forced landings at sea by or from aircraft.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 14-16</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>All warships of a belligerent Party shall have the right to demand that the wounded, sick or shipwrecked on board military and other hospital ships shall be surrendered, provided that the wounded and sick are in a fit state to be moved, and that the warship can provide adequate facilities. If wounded, sick or shipwrecked persons are taken on board a neutral warship or neutral military aircraft, it shall be ensured, where so required by international law, that they can take no further part in operations of war. The wounded, sick and shipwrecked of a belligerent who fall into enemy hands shall be prisoners of war. The captor may decide whether it is expedient to hold them or to convey them to a port in the captor’s own country, to a neutral port or even to a port in enemy territory. In the last case prisoners of war thus returned to their home country may not serve for the duration of the war.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 22-35</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Military hospital ships, that is ships built or equipped solely with a view to assisting the wounded, sick or shipwrecked, may not be attacked or captured, but shall be respected and protected, on condition that their names and descriptions have been notified to the Parties to the conflict ten days before the ships are employed. This also applies to hospital ships used by National Red Cross Societies and by authorized relief organizations belonging to a Party to the conflict or to a neutral country. Small craft used for coastal rescue operations shall also be respected and protected. The vessels described above shall afford relief and assistance to the wounded, sick and shipwrecked, without distinction of nationality. The High Contracting Parties undertake not to use these vessels for any military purpose. The Parties to the conflict shall have the right to control and search these vessels. The protection to which hospital ships are entitled shall not cease unless they are used to commit acts harmful to the enemy, and then only after due warning has been given. Hospital ships may not use a secret code for their wireless or other means of communication.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <i>Article 36</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>The religious, medical and hospital personnel of hospital ships and their crews shall be respected and protected; they may not be captured during the time they are in the service of the ship, whether or not there are wounded and sick on board.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <i>Article 38</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Ships chartered for the purpose shall be authorized to transport equipment exclusively intended for the treatment of wounded and sick members of armed forces or for the prevention of disease, provided that the particulars of their voyage have been notified to and approved by the adverse Power.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <i>Article 43</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Hospital ships shall be distinctively marked: all exterior surfaces shall be white, and dark red crosses, as large as possible, shall be painted on each side of the hull and on the horizontal surfaces, so as to afford the greatest possible visibility from the sea and the air. A white flag with a red cross shall be flown from the mainmast. Coastal lifeboats and all small craft used by the Medical Service shall be similarly marked. These signs may only be used for indicating or protecting the vessels mentioned above, and the High Contracting Parties shall take the necessary measures to prevent abuse of the distinctive signs.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
          </legal-block>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-IRC.GEN.CONV.3" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="edio">
          <heading>Third Geneva Convention</heading>
          <heading-note>The Geneva Convention relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War</heading-note>
          <legal-block>
               <p>
                    <sc>Part i: General Provisions</sc>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 1-11</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>The text of the first three Articles is the same as that in Articles 1-3 of the First Geneva Convention. Article 4 defines prisoners of war (PoWs) by the same criteria as those defining persons covered by the First Geneva Convention (Article 13 of the First Convention). It adds that the following shall likewise be treated as PoWs: persons belonging, or having belonged, to the armed forces of the occupied country if the occupying Power considers it necessary to intern them; and persons belonging to one of the above categories who have been received by neutral or non-belligerent Powers on their territory and whom these Powers are required to intern under international law. Articles 8-11 provide for the scrutiny of the application of the Convention, as in Articles 8-11 of the First Geneva Convention.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
          </legal-block>
          <legal-block>
               <p>
                    <sc>Part II: General Protection of Prisoners of War</sc>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 12-16</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Prisoners of war are in the hands of the enemy Power, but not of the individuals or military units who have captured them. The detaining Power is responsible for the treatment given them. PoWs must at all times be humanely treated. No PoW may be subjected to physical mutilation, or to medical or scientific experiments of any kind. PoWs must at all times be protected, particularly against acts of violence or intimidation, and against insults and public curiosity. Measures of reprisal against PoWs are prohibited. PoWs are entitled to respect for their persons and their honour. Women shall be treated with all the regard due to their sex, and shall benefit by treatment as favourable as that granted to men. PoWs shall retain the full civil capacity which they enjoyed at the time of their capture. The Power detaining PoWs shall be bound to provide free of charge for their maintenance and for medical attention. All PoWs shall be treated alike, without any adverse distinction based on race, nationality, religious belief or political opinions.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
          </legal-block>
          <legal-block>
               <p>
                    <sc>Part III: Captivity</sc>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <b>Section I: Beginning of Captivity</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 17-20</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>When questioned, a PoW is bound to give only his surname, first name, rank, date of birth, and army, regimental, personal or serial number, or equivalent information. No physical or mental torture, nor any other form of coercion, may be inflicted on PoWs to secure information from them. PoWs who refuse to answer may not be threatened, insulted or exposed to disadvantageous treatment. PoWs may keep their personal possessions, except for weapons, military equipment and military documents. PoWs shall be evacuated, as soon as possible after their capture, to camps in an area far enough from the combat zone for them to be out of danger. Evacuation of PoWs shall be effected humanely and in conditions similar to those for the forces of the Detaining Power in their changes of station: the PoWs must be supplied with the necessary food, water, clothing and medical attention, and any stay in transit camps shall be as brief as possible.</p>
          .
        </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <b>Section II: Internment of Prisoners of War</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <b>Chapter I: General Observations</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 21-24</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>The Detaining Power may subject PoWs to internment. It may impose on them the obligation of not leaving, beyond certain limits, the camp where they are interned, or if the camp is fenced in, of not going outside its perimeter. PoWs may not be held in close confinement, except under penal and disciplinary sanctions or where necessary to safeguard their health. PoWs may be partially or wholly released on parole or promise. They may be interned only in premises located on land and affording every guarantee of hygiene and healthfulness, and shall be assembled according to their nationality, language and customs. No PoW may be detained in areas where he may be exposed to the fire of the combat zone, nor may his presence be used to render certain areas immune from military operations. PoWs shall have shelters against air bombardment and other hazards of war, to the same extent as the local civilian population. PoW camps shall be indicated in the daytime by the letters PW or PG, or other agreed markings, clearly visible from the air.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <b>Chapter II: Quarters, Food and Clothing</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 25-28</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>PoWs shall be quartered under conditions as favourable as those for the forces of the Detaining Power who are billeted in the same area, particularly as regards dormitory space and installations. Premises shall be adequately heated and lighted, and protected against damp and the danger of fire. Separate dormitories shall be provided for women PoWs. Daily food rations must be sufficient to ensure good health, and sufficient drinking water, clothing and footwear must be provided. Canteens shall be installed in all camps, where PoWs may procure food, soap, tobacco and ordinary articles in daily use, at a tariff not in excess of local market prices.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <b>Chapter III: Hygiene and Medical Attention</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 29-32</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>The Detaining Power shall be bound to take all sanitary measures necessary to ensure the cleanliness and healthfulness of camps and to prevent epidemics. Hygienic conveniences and washing facilities shall be provided and kept clean, with separate facilities for women PoWs. Every camp shall have an adequate infirmary where PoWs may have the attention they require. Medical inspections of PoWs shall be held at least once a month.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <b>Chapter IV: Medical Personnel and Chaplains retained to assist Prisoners of War</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Article 33</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Medical personnel and chaplains retained by the Detaining Power to assist PoWs shall not be considered as PoWs. They shall receive as a minimum all the benefits and protection of the present Convention, and be granted all facilities necessary for medical care of and religious ministration to PoWs. The senior medical officer in each camp shall be responsible to the camp military authorities for everything connected with the activities of retained medical personnel. Although they shall be subject to the internal discipline of the camp in which they are retained, such personnel may not be compelled to carry out any work other than that concerned with their medical or religious duties.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <b>Chapter V: Religious, Intellectual and Physical Activities</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 34-38</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>PoWs shall enjoy complete latitude in the exercise of their religious duties. Chaplains who fall into the hands of the enemy Power and who remain or are retained with a view to assisting PoWs, shall be allowed to minister to them. PoWs who are ministers of religion shall be at liberty to minister freely to the members of their community. The Detaining Power shall encourage the practice of intellectual, educational and recreational pursuits, sports and games among prisoners, and shall provide adequate premises and equipment. Prisoners shall have opportunities for taking physical exercise. Sufficient open spaces shall be provided for this purpose.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <b>Chapter VI: Discipline</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 43-45</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Every PoW camp shall be put under the immediate authority of a responsible commissioned officer of the regular armed forces of the Detaining Power, who shall possess a copy of the Convention and ensure that its provisions are known to the camp staff and the guard, and shall be responsible, under the direction of his government, for its application. In every camp the text of the Convention shall be available to prisoners in their own language. Regulations, orders, notices and publications relating to the conduct of PoWs shall be issued in a language that they can understand. The use of weapons against PoWs, especially against those who are attempting to escape, shall constitute an extreme measure, which shall always be preceded by appropriate warnings.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <b>Chapter VII: Rank of Prisoners of War</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 43-45</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>The Parties to the conflict shall communicate to one another the titles and ranks of all the persons qualifying as PoWs, in order to ensure equality of treatment between prisoners of equivalent rank. Officers and prisoners of equivalent status shall be treated with the regard due to their rank and age. In order to ensure service in officers’ camps, other ranks of the same armed forces shall be assigned as orderlies. Supervision of the mess by the officers themselves shall be facilitated in every way. PoWs other than officers and prisoners of equivalent status shall be treated with the regard due to their rank and age. Supervision of the mess by the prisoners themselves shall be facilitated in every way.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <b>Chapter VIII: Transfer of Prisoners of War after their Arrival in Camp</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 46-48</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>The Detaining Power, when deciding upon the transfer of PoWs, shall take into account the interests of the prisoners themselves, more especially so as not to increase the difficulty of their repatriation. The transfer of PoWs shall always be effected humanely and in conditions not less favourable than those under which the forces of the Detaining Power are transferred. Sick or wounded PoWs shall not be transferred as long as their recovery may be endangered by the journey, unless their safety imperatively demands it. Prisoners may take their personal effects with them, and inform their next of kin of their new postal address.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <b>Section III: Labour of Prisoners of War</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 49-57</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>The Detaining Power may utilize the labour of PoWs who are physically fit, taking into account their age, sex, rank and physical aptitude, and with a view to maintaining them in good health. Non-commissioned officers shall only be required to do supervisory work. If officers or persons of equivalent status ask for suitable work, it shall be found for them, so far as possible, but they may not be compelled to work. Apart from camp administration and maintenance, PoWs may be compelled to do only such work as is included in the following classes: agriculture; industries connected with the production or extraction of raw materials, and manufacturing, with the exception of metallurgical, machinery and chemical industries; public works and building operations which have no military character or purpose; transport and handling of non-military stores; commercial business; arts and crafts; domestic service; non-military public utility services. PoWs must be granted suitable working conditions, regulations, training and protection similar to those of the nationals of the Detaining Power. No PoW may be employed, except as a volunteer, in labour which is unhealthy, dangerous (including the removal of mines) or humiliating. Working hours and rest periods are to be similar to those permitted for local civilian nationals of the Detaining Power, who are employed in the same work. The fitness of PoWs for work shall be periodically verified by medical examinations. The organization of labour detachments shall be similar to that of PoW camps, and every labour detachment shall remain administratively part of a PoW camp, whose commander is responsible for them.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <b>Section IV: Financial Resources of Prisoners of War</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 58-68</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>The Detaining Power may determine the maximum amount of money that prisoners may have in their possession. Any amount in excess shall be placed to their separate accounts. The Detaining Power shall grant all PoWs a monthly advance of pay, according to rank. They shall be paid a fair working rate of pay by the detaining authorities direct. PoWs shall be permitted to receive remittances of money addressed to them individually or collectively. The Detaining Power shall hold an account for each PoW, and on the termination of captivity he shall be given a statement showing the credit balance due to him. Advances of pay are considered as made on behalf of the Power on which the PoW depends, and shall form the subject of arrangements between the Powers concerned, at the close of hostilities.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <b>Section V: Relations of Prisoners of War with the Exterior</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 69-77</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Immediately upon capture, or not more than one week after arrival at a camp, every PoW shall be enabled to write directly to his family and to the Central Prisoners of War Information Agency (see Article 123, below), informing them of his capture, address and state of health. PoWs shall be allowed to send and receive letters, subject to censorship. They may receive parcels and relief shipments. If military operations prevent the transport of mail, the ICRC or any other approved organization may undertake the conveyance of it.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <b>Section VI: Relations between Prisoners of War and the Authorities</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <b>Chapter I: Complaints of Prisoners respecting the Conditions of Captivity</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Article 78</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>PoWs shall have the right to make requests to the military authorities in whose power they are, regarding their conditions of captivity, and have the unrestricted right to apply to the representatives of the Protecting Powers, either directly or through their prisoners’ representative, to make a complaint regarding their conditions of captivity. Even if the requests or complaints are recognized to be unfounded, they may not give rise to any punishment.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <b>Chapter II: Prisoners’ Representatives</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 79-81</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>In all places where there are PoWs, except in those where there are officers, the prisoners shall freely elect by secret ballot, every six months, prisoners’ representatives entrusted with representing them before the military authorities, the Protecting Powers, the ICRC and any other organization which may assist them, and with furthering the well-being of the PoWs. In camps for officers or mixed camps, the senior officer present acts as the prisoners’ representative. The prisoners’ representative must have the same nationality, language and customs as those he represents.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <b>Chapter III: Penal and Disciplinary Sanctions</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 82-98</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>A PoW shall be subject to the laws, regulations and orders in force in the armed forces of the Detaining Power, and the Detaining Power may take judicial or disciplinary measures in respect of any offence. A PoW shall be tried only by a military court, unless a member of the armed forces of the Detaining Power would be tried in a civil court for the same offence. The court must guarantee independence and impartiality. PoWs may not be sentenced to any penalties except those provided for in respect of members of the armed forces of the Detaining Power who have committed the same acts. Collective punishment for individual acts, corporal punishment, imprisonment in premises without daylight, and any form of torture or cruelty, are forbidden. No PoW may be deprived of his rank by the Detaining Power. Disciplinary punishments comprise: a fine; discontinuance of privileges; fatigue duties (not for officers); or confinement; they may not be inhuman, brutal or dangerous to the prisoner’s health. The duration of any single punishment shall not exceed 30 days. PoWs who have successfully escaped and are recaptured shall not be liable to any punishment. PoWs who are caught attempting to escape shall be liable only to a disciplinary punishment, even if it is a repeated offence, but may be subjected to special surveillance.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 99-108</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>With regard to judicial proceedings, no PoW may be tried or sentenced for an act which is not forbidden by the law of the Detaining Power or by international law, in force at the time when the act was committed. No coercion may be exerted on a PoW to induce him to admit guilt, and no PoW may be convicted without an opportunity to present his defence and the assistance of a qualified advocate. If the Detaining Power has decided to institute judicial proceedings against a PoW, it shall notify the Protecting Power as soon as possible, and at least three weeks before the opening of the trial. Any judgment and sentence pronounced upon a PoW shall be immediately reported to the Protecting Power. If the death penalty is pronounced, the sentence shall not be executed until at least six months after the Protecting Power has received notification. Sentences shall be served in the same establishments and under the same conditions as in the case of the armed forces of the Detaining Power; these conditions shall conform to the requirements of health and humanity. A woman PoW on whom such a sentence has been pronounced shall be confined separately and under the supervision of women.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <sc>Part IV: Termination of Captivity</sc>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <b>Section I: Direct Repatriation and Accommodation in Neutral Countries</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 109-117</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Parties to the conflict are bound to send back to their own country PoWs who are seriously wounded or seriously ill, if fit for travel. The wounded and sick may be accommodated in a neutral country if this is likely to increase their prospects of recovery. Mixed Medical Commissions (see Annex II, below) shall be appointed to make decisions concerning sick and wounded PoWs. No repatriated person may be employed on active military service.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <b>Section II: Release and Repatriation at the Close of Hostilities</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 118-119</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>PoWs shall be released and repatriated without delay after the cessation of active hostilities. The costs of repatriation shall be equitably shared between the Detaining Power and the Power on which the prisoners depend. Repatriation shall be effected in conditions similar to those laid down for the transfer of PoWs (Articles 46-48, above). Articles of value and foreign currency shall be restored to them, and they may take their personal effects with them, or these may be forwarded by the Detaining Power. PoWs against whom criminal proceedings are pending may be detained until the end of the proceedings and the completion of the punishment; the same shall apply to prisoners already convicted of an indictable offence.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <b>Section III: Death of Prisoners of War</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 120-121</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Wills of PoWs shall be drawn up in accordance with the legislation of their countries of origin, and after death the will shall be transmitted to the Protecting Power. Death certificates and details of the place of burial of all persons who die as PoWs shall be forwarded to the PoW Information Bureau. The burial or cremation of a PoW shall be preceded by a medical examination and report. The detaining authorities shall ensure that PoWs are honourably buried, if possible according to the rites of their own religion, and their graves respected, maintained and marked, and the particulars recorded with a Graves Registration Service established by the Detaining Power.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <sc>Part V: Information Bureaux and Relief Societies for Prisoners of War</sc>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 122-125</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Upon the outbreak of a conflict and in all cases of occupation, each of the Parties to the conflict shall institute an official Information Bureau to receive information on PoWs and transmit it to their next of kin, to make enquiries concerning PoWs, and to collect and pass on the personal possessions of PoWs who have been repatriated, escaped or died. A Central Prisoner of War Information Agency shall be created in a neutral country, to collect and transmit information on PoWs. Subject to the measures which the Detaining Powers may consider essential to ensure their security, the representatives of religious organizations, relief societies or other organizations assisting PoWs shall receive facilities for visiting prisoners and distributing relief supplies. The special position of the ICRC in this field shall be recognized and respected at all times.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <sc>Part VI: Execution of the Convention</sc>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 126-132</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Representatives of the Protecting Powers shall have permission to go to all places where PoWs may be and interview the prisoners without witnesses. They shall have full liberty to select the places they wish to visit, and the duration and frequency of visits shall not be restricted. The delegates of the ICRC shall enjoy the same prerogatives. The text covering the widespread dissemination of the Convention and the undertaking by the High Contracting Parties to enact legislation that will provide effective penal sanctions for persons committing grave breaches of the Convention is largely identical with that of Articles 47-52 of the First Geneva Convention (see above): to the list of grave breaches included there, this section adds compelling a PoW to serve in the forces of the hostile Power and wilfully depriving a PoW of the rights of fair and regular trial.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 133-143</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>This section concerns details of the translation, signature and ratification of the Convention, with provision for denunciation of the Convention by a High Contracting Party (as in Article 63 of the First Geneva Convention).</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <b>ANNEXES</b>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Annex I is a model agreement concerning repatriation of wounded and sick PoWs, giving extensive medical criteria. Annex II gives regulations concerning the Mixed Medical Commissions provided for in Article 112: they are to comprise three members, two of whom, appointed by the ICRC, shall belong to a neutral country, while the third shall be appointed by the Detaining Power. Annex III comprises regulations concerning collective relief. Annex IV gives the wording of identity cards and other documents.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
          </legal-block>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-IRC.GEN.CONV4.004" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="edio">
          <heading>Fourth Geneva Convention</heading>
          <heading-note>The Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War</heading-note>
          <legal-block>
               <p>
                    <sc>Part I: General Provisions</sc>
               </p>
               <p>The text of the first three Articles is the same as that of Articles 1-3 in the First Geneva Convention (see above).</p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 4-12</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Persons protected by the Convention are those who find themselves, in case of a conflict or occupation, in the hands of a Party to the conflict or Occupying Power of which they are not nationals. Nationals of a state which is not bound by the Convention are not protected by it. Persons protected by the first three Conventions shall not be considered as protected persons within the meaning of the present Convention. In the territory of a Party to the conflict, an individual who is suspected of or engaged in activities hostile to the security of the State is not entitled to claim rights and privileges under the Convention that would be prejudicial to the security of the State. Where in occupied territory an individual protected person is detained as a spy or saboteur, he shall, where military security so requires, forfeit rights of communication under the Convention. Such persons shall be treated with humanity and not be deprived of the rights of fair and regular trial. In the territory of Parties to the conflict, the application of the Convention shall cease on the close of military operations, and in the case of occupied territory, one year afterwards. The text on provision for scrutiny of how the Convention is applied is similar to that in Articles 8-11 of the First Geneva Convention.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <sc>Part II: General Protection of Populations against certain Consequences of War</sc>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 13-26</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>The provisions of Part II cover the whole of the populations of the countries in conflict, without any adverse distinction based on race, nationality, religion or political opinion, and are intended to alleviate the sufferings caused by war. Parties to a conflict may establish hospital and safety zones to protect from the effects of war wounded, sick and aged persons, children under 15, expectant mothers and mothers of children under seven. In the regions where fighting is taking place, the Parties may establish neutralized zones to shelter wounded and sick combatants and non-combatants, and civilians who take no part in hostilities and perform no work of a military character while residing in the zones. They shall endeavour to conclude local agreements for the removal of wounded, sick, infirm and aged persons, children and maternity cases, from besieged or encircled areas, and for the passage of ministers of religion and medical personnel and equipment to such areas. Civilian hospitals may not be the object of attack, unless they are used to commit acts harmful to the enemy, and then only after due warning has been given. Protection is given to medical personnel, convoys of vehicles, hospital trains, vessels and aircraft carrying wounded and sick civilians, and consignments of medical stores. Parties to the conflict shall ensure that children under 15 who are orphaned or separated from their families as a result of war are not left to their own resources, and that their maintenance, the exercise of their religion and their education are facilitated; the Parties shall facilitate the reception of such children in a neutral country for the duration of the conflict. All persons in the territory of a Party to the conflict, or in an occupied territory, shall be enabled to give personal news to members of their families, and to receive news from them, without undue delay. Each Party shall facilitate enquiries made by members of families dispersed owing to the war.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <sc>Part III: Status and Treatment of Protected Persons</sc>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <b>Section I: Provisions common to the Territories of the Parties to the Conflict and to Occupied Territories</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 27-34</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Protected persons are entitled, in all circumstances, to respect for their persons, their honour, their family rights, their religious convictions and practices, and their manners and customs. They shall at all times be humanely treated, and protected against all acts of violence or threats thereof and against insults and public curiosity. Women shall especially be protected against any attack on their honour, in particular against rape, enforced prostitution, or any form of indecent assault. All protected persons shall be treated with the same consideration, regardless of race, religion or political opinion. The presence of a protected person may not be used to render certain points or areas immune from military operations. No physical or moral coercion shall be exercised against protected persons to obtain information from them or from third parties. No measure may be taken to cause the physical suffering or extermination of protected persons, through murder, torture, corporal punishment, mutilation and medical or scientific experiments not necessitated by medical treatment, or any other measures of brutality by civilian or military agents. No protected person may be punished for an offence he has not personally committed. Collective penalties and all measures of intimidation or of terrorism are prohibited, likewise pillage, reprisals and the taking of hostages.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <b>Section II: Aliens in the Territory of a Party to the Conflict </b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 35-46</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>All protected persons who desire to leave the territory at the outset of or during a conflict shall be entitled to do so, unless their departure is contrary to the national interest: their application to leave shall be decided in accordance with regularly established procedures, as rapidly as possible. They may take necessary funds and possessions. Departures shall be carried out in satisfactory conditions as regards safety, hygiene, sanitation and food. The situation of protected persons who are aliens shall continue to be regulated, in principle, by the provisions concerning aliens in time of peace. They are entitled to the same treatment as the nationals of the State concerned in receiving medical attention, being allowed to move away from dangerous areas, and receiving preferential treatment for children under 15 years, pregnant women and mothers of children under seven. Protected persons who, as a result of the war, have lost their gainful employment, shall be granted the opportunity to find paid employment, on an equal basis with the nationals of the Party to the conflict in whose territory they are. Where a Party to the conflict applies methods of control which prevent a protected person from supporting himself, the Party shall ensure his support and that of his dependants. Protected persons may be compelled to work only to the same extent as nationals of the Party to the conflict in whose territory they are, and shall have the benefit of the same working conditions and safeguards. The internment or placing in assigned residence of protected persons may be ordered only if the security of the Detaining Power makes it absolutely necessary. Any protected person who has been interned or placed in assigned residence shall be entitled to have this action reconsidered by an appropriate court or administrative board designated by the Detaining Power for that purpose. The Detaining Power shall as soon as possible give the Protecting Power the names of internees. The Detaining Power shall not treat refugees as enemy aliens exclusively on the basis of their being nationals de jure of an enemy state when, in fact, they do not enjoy the protection of any government. Protected persons may be transferred by the Detaining Power only to a Power which is a party to the Convention, and after the Detaining Power has satisfied itself of the willingness and ability of the transferee Power to apply the Convention. In no circumstances shall a protected person be transferred to a country where he may have reason to fear persecution for political opinions or religious beliefs. These provisions do not constitute an obstacle to the extradition of protected persons accused of offences against ordinary criminal law. Restrictive measures regarding protected persons and their property shall be cancelled as soon as possible after the close of hostilities.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <b>Section III: Occupied Territories</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 47-50</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Protected persons who are in occupied territory shall not be deprived of the benefits of the Convention by any change introduced, as a result of the occupation, into the institutions or government of the territory. Protected persons who are not nationals of the Power whose territory is occupied may leave the territory (subject to the provisions of Article 35: see above). Individual or mass forcible transfers and deportations are prohibited, although the Occupying Power may evacuate an area if the security of the population or imperative military reasons demand it: such evacuees shall be transferred back to their homes as soon as hostilities in the area have ceased. The Occupying Power shall ensure that proper accommodation is provided for the evacuees, and the Protecting Power shall be informed at once of any transfers and evacuations. The Occupying Power shall not deport or transfer parts of its own civilian population into the territory it occupies. It shall facilitate the proper working of all institutions devoted to the care and education of children, and arrange for the maintenance of children who are orphaned or separated from their families as a result of the war.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 51-52</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>The Occupying Power may not compel protected persons to serve in its armed or auxiliary forces. No pressure or propaganda which aims at securing voluntary enlistment is permitted. The Occupying Power may not compel protected persons to work unless they are over 18, and then only on work which is necessary either for the needs of the army of occupation, or for the public utility services, or for the feeding, sheltering, clothing, transportation or health of the population of the occupied country. They may not be compelled to undertake any work which would involve them in military operations. Workers shall be paid a fair wage and the legislation in force in the occupied country concerning working conditions and safeguards shall be applicable.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 53-58</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Destruction of private or state property by the Occupying Power is prohibited, except where it is rendered absolutely necessary by military operations. The Occupying Power may not alter the status of public officials or judges in the occupied territories, or apply sanctions to them should they abstain from fulfilling their functions for reasons of conscience: this prohibition does not affect the right of the Occupying Power to remove public officials from their posts. The Occupying Power has the duty of ensuring the food and medical supplies of the population. It may not requisition supplies except for use by the occupation forces and administration personnel, and then only if the requirements of the civilian population have been met. It has the duty of maintaining medical and hospital establishments and services, public health and hygiene in the occupied territory; it may requisition civilian hospitals only temporarily for the care of military wounded and sick, on condition that the needs of the civilian population are met. It shall permit ministers of religion to give spiritual assistance to the members of their religious communities.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 59-63</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>If the whole or part of the occupied territory is inadequately supplied, the Occupying Power shall facilitate relief schemes by states or by impartial humanitarian organizations such as the ICRC. Relief consignments shall in no way relieve the Occupying Power of any of its responsibilities. Recognized National Red Cross Societies and similar relief societies shall be permitted to pursue their activities.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 64-69</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>The penal laws of the occupied territory shall remain in force unless they constitute a threat to the security of the Occupying Power or an obstacle to the application of the Convention. The Occupying Power may, however, subject the population of the occupied territory to provisions which are essential to enable the Occupying Power to fulfil its obligations under the Convention, to maintain the orderly government of the territory, and to ensure the security of the Occupying Power. The penal provisions enacted by the Occupying Power shall not come into force before they have been published and brought to the knowledge of the inhabitants in their own language, and their effect shall not be retroactive. In the case of a breach of these penal provisions, the Occupying Power may hand over the accused to its properly constituted, non-political military courts, on condition that these courts sit in the occupied country. Protected persons who commit an offence which is solely intended to harm the Occupying Power, but which does not constitute an attempt on the life or limb of members of the occupying forces or administration, nor a grave collective danger, nor seriously damage the property of the occupying forces, shall be liable to internment or simple imprisonment proportionate to the offence committed. The death penalty may only be imposed where the protected person is guilty of espionage, serious acts of sabotage or offences which have caused the death of one or more persons, provided that such offences were punishable by death under the law of the occupied territory in force before the occupation began. The death penalty may not be pronounced against a person who was under 18 years of age at the time of the offence.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 70-78</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Protected persons shall not be arrested or convicted by the Occupying Power for acts committed or for opinions expressed before the occupation, except for breaches of the laws and customs of war. No sentence shall be pronounced by the competent courts of the Occupying Power except after a regular trial. The Protecting Power shall be informed of all proceedings instituted by the Occupying Power against protected persons in respect of charges involving the death penalty or imprisonment for two years or more. Accused persons have the right to be assisted by a qualified advocate and an interpreter, and shall have the right of appeal. No death sentence shall be carried out until six months after the Protecting Power has been notified. If convicted, protected persons shall serve their sentences in the occupied country, under conditions sufficient to keep them in good health. If the Occupying Power considers it necessary, for reasons of security, to take safety measures concerning protected persons, it may, at the most, subject them to assigned residence or to internment.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <b>Section IV: Regulations for the Treatment of Internees</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <b>Chapter I: General Provisions</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 79-82</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>The Parties to the conflict shall not intern protected persons, except in accordance with the provisions of the Articles summarized in the previous paragraphs. Internees shall retain their full civil capacity. Parties to the conflict who intern protected persons shall be bound to provide free of charge for their maintenance and medical care, and for the support of their dependants if necessary. The Detaining Power shall, as far as possible, accommodate internees according to their nationality, language and customs. Members of the same family, especially parents and children, shall be interned together, with facilities for leading a proper family life.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <b>Chapters II-XI: Places and Conditions of Internment</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 83-131</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>The Detaining Power shall not set up places of internment in areas particularly exposed to the dangers of war. Internment camps shall be indicated by the letters IC, or other agreed marking, so as to be clearly visible from the air. Internees shall be accommodated and administered separately from prisoners of war and from persons deprived of liberty for any other reason. Every place of internment shall be put under the authority of a responsible officer chosen from the regular military forces or the regular civil administration of the Detaining Power: the officer in charge must possess a copy of the Convention and is responsible for its application, and must instruct the staff in charge of internees accordingly. The text of the Convention shall be posted inside the place of internment, in a language which the internees understand. Provisions for hygienic living conditions, adequate food and clothing, medical attention, facilities for intellectual and physical activities and correspondence, retention of possessions, internees’ representatives, disciplinary punishments, the transfer of internees, and the procedures to be followed after the death of an internee, are similar to those stipulated for prisoners of war under the Third Geneva Convention (see above). Children shall be allowed to attend school, either within the place of internment or outside. The Detaining Power shall not employ internees as workers unless they so desire: working conditions and payment shall not be inferior to those obtaining for work of the same nature in the same district.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <b>Chapter XII: Release and Repatriation</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 132-135</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Each interned person shall be released by the Detaining Power as soon as the reasons which necessitated his internment no longer exist, and as soon as possible after the close of hostilities. Internees against whom penal proceedings are pending, for offences not exclusively subject to disciplinary penalties, may be detained until the close of the proceedings and the completion of the penalty. The High Contracting Parties shall endeavour, upon the close of hostilities or occupation, to ensure the return of all internees to their last place of residence, or to facilitate their repatriation.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <b>Section V: Information Bureaux and Central Agency</b>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 136-141</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Upon the outbreak of a conflict and in all cases of occupation, each of the Parties to the conflict shall establish an official Information Bureau, responsible for receiving and transmitting information in respect of the protected persons who are in its power: each of the Parties to the conflict shall give its Bureau information on any protected persons who are kept in custody for more than two weeks, subjected to assigned residence , or interned. Each national Bureau shall also be responsible for collecting and forwarding the personal possessions left by protected persons who have been released or repatriated, escaped or died. A Central Information Agency for protected persons, in particular for internees, shall be created in a neutral country: it may be the same as that created for prisoners of war under the Third Geneva Convention (Article 123).</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <sc>Part IV: Execution of the Convention</sc>
               </p>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 142-143</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>This section makes provision for the assistance of protected persons by representatives of the Protecting Powers and of religious organizations and relief societies (in particular the ICRC), similar to that given to prisoners of war under the Third Geneva Convention (Articles 125-126).</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 144-149</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>These Articles, largely common to all four Conventions, provide for the widespread dissemination of the Convention and the undertaking by the High Contracting Parties to enact legislation that will provide effective penal sanctions for persons committing grave breaches of the Convention (see under the First Geneva Convention, Articles 47-54).</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <i>Articles 150-159</i>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>This section concerns details of the translation, signature and ratification of the Convention, with provision for denunciation of the Convention by a High Contracting Party (as in Article 63 of the First Geneva Convention).</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <p>
                    <b>ANNEXES</b>
               </p>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p>Annex I is a draft agreement relating to hospital and safety zones. Annex II comprises draft regulations concerning collective relief.</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
          </legal-block>
     </int-org-section>
</int-org-entry>