<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="LAS.IO" id-root="las.io" iso="las.io" original-filename="wb02057.txt" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio mena"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>League of Arab States</org-entry-name>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">MAJOR NON-UN ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="mena">REGIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb edio mena">League of Arab States</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>POB 11642, Arab League Bldg, Tahrir Sq., Cairo, Egypt</verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 575-0511</telephone>
               <fax>(2) 574-0331</fax>
               <email>communication.dept@las.int</email>
               <internet>www.lasportal.org</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p id="LAS.IO.3">The League of Arab States (more generally known as the Arab League) was founded in March 1945 with the adoption of the Pact of the League of Arab States, and aims to strengthen mutual ties and to co-ordinate policies and activities to support the common good of all the Arab countries.</p>
          <!--~Alexandria Protocol -->
          <int-org-section id="LAS.IO.184" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Members</heading>
               <table-block-simple id="LAS.IO.185" type="OTHER">
                    <table pgwide="NO" style="WITHOUT-RULES">
                         <tgroup cols="3">
                              <colspec colwidth="6.7cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="6.7cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="6.6cm" />
                              <tbody>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Algeria</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Lebanon</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Saudi Arabia</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Bahrain</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Libya</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Somalia</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Comoros</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Mauritania</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Sudan </entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Djibouti</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Morocco</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                  Syrian Arab Republic
                  <endnoteref idref="LAS.IO.300" ref-symbol="†" />
                                        </entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Egypt</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Oman</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Tunisia</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Iraq</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                  Palestine
                  <endnoteref idref="LAS.IO.300.1" ref-symbol="*" />
                                        </entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">United Arab Emirates</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Jordan</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Qatar</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Yemen</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Kuwait</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   </row>
                              </tbody>
                         </tgroup>
                    </table>
                    <endnote id="LAS.IO.300.1" ref-symbol="*">Palestine is considered to be an independent state, and therefore a full member of the League</endnote>
                    <endnote id="LAS.IO.300" ref-symbol="†">Syria was suspended from meetings of the League during November 2011-May 2023.</endnote>
               </table-block-simple>
               <p>Note: Brazil, Eritrea, India and Venezuela have observer status. In March 2018 it was reported that South Sudan had applied for observer status.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="LAS.IO.186" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <heading-note>May 2024</heading-note>
          <int-org-section id="LAS.IO.187" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Council</heading>
               <p id="LAS.IO.28">The supreme organ of the League of Arab States, the Council consists of represent­atives of the member states, including Palestine. The Council meets ordinarily every March at the Arab League headquarters, at the level of heads of state (`kings, heads of state and emirs'), and in March and September at the level of ministers responsible for foreign affairs. Meetings of the Council are also convened at the level of delegates. Arab consultative summits may be convoked when deemed necessary to address specific issues. The summit level meeting reviews all issues related to Arab national security strategies, co-ordinates supreme policies of the Arab states towards regional and international issues, reviews recommendations and reports submitted to it by the ministerial meetings, appoints the Secretary-General, and is mandated to amend the League's Pact. Decisions of the Council at the level of heads of state are passed on a consensus basis. Meetings of ministers responsible for foreign affairs assess the implementation of summit resolutions, prepare relevant reports, and make arrangements for subsequent summits. Committees comprising a smaller group of foreign ministers may be appointed to follow up closely summit resolutions. Extraordinary summit meetings may be held at the request of one member state or the Secretary-General, if approved by a two-thirds’ majority of member states. Extraordinary sessions of ministers responsible for foreign affairs may be held at the request of two member states or of the Secretary-General. The presidency of ordinary meetings is rotated in accordance with the alphabetical order of the League's member states. Unanimous decisions of the Council are binding upon all member states of the League; majority decisions are binding only on those states that have accepted them.</p>
               <p>Specialized ministerial councils are convened to formulate common policies for the regulation and the advancement of co-operation in the following sectors: electricity; environment; health; housing and construction; interior; justice; media; social affairs; telecommunications and information; tourism; trans­port; water; and youth and sports.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="LAS.IO.188" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>General Secretariat</heading>
               <p id="LAS.IO.30">The General Secre­tariat implements the decisions of the Council, and provides financial and administrative services for the personnel of the League. Eight administrative Sectors cover Administrative and financial affairs; Arab national security; Economic affairs; Information and communication; Legal affairs; Palestine and the Occupied Arab Territories; International political affairs; and Social affairs. </p>
               <p id="LAS.IO.31">The Secretary-General is appointed at summit meetings of the Council by a two-thirds' majority of the member states, for a five-year, renewable term. He appoints the Assistant Secretaries-General and principal officials, with the approval of the Council. </p>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="LAS.IO.32" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Secretary-General</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Ahmed</forename>
                                        <surname>Aboul Gheit</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Egypt</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                         <!--rc 04.03.2020 reappointed for five year term till 2025-->
                    </dir-entry>
                    <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Deputy Secretary-General</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Hossam</forename>
                                        <surname>Zaki</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Egypt</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="LAS.IO.189" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Defence and Economic Co-operation</heading>
               <p id="LAS.IO.33">Established under the Treaty of Joint Defence and Eco­nomic Co-operation, concluded in 1950 to complement the Pact of the League:</p>
               <org-list>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Joint Defence Council</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">supervises implementation of those aspects of the treaty concerned with common defence. Composed of ministers responsible for foreign affairs and for defence; decisions by a two-thirds’ majority vote of members are binding on all</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Permanent Military Commission</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">composed of representatives of army general staffs; main purpose: to draw up plans of joint defence for submission to the Joint Defence Council</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Economic and Social Council</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">compares and co-ordinates the eco­nomic policies of the member states; supervises the activities of the Arab League's specialized agencies. The Council is composed of ministers responsible for economic affairs or their deputies; decisions are taken by majority vote. The first meeting was held in 1953. In February 1997 the Economic and Social Council adopted the Executive Programme of the League's (1981) Agreement to Facilitate and Develop Trade Among Arab Countries, with a view to establishing a Greater Arab Free Trade Area. The Council’s 113th session was convened at the League’s headquarters in Feb. 2024</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
               </org-list>
               <p usage="edio mena">An Arab Unified Military Command, established in 1964 to co-ordinate military policies for the liberation of Palestine, is inactive. </p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="LAS.IO.001" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Arab Parliament</heading>
               <p id="LAS.IO.002">Inaugurated in December 2005 (as a transitional institution, with permanent status granted in March 2012), the Arab Parliament is based in Damascus, and comprises 88 members (four delegates from each Arab state, including some representing non-elected bodies).</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="LAS.IO.191" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Other Institutions of the League</heading>
               <p id="LAS.IO.39">Other bodies established by resolutions adopted by the Council of the League:</p>
               <org-list>
                    <org-entry id="LAS.IO.40" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Administrative Tribunal of the Arab League</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>1964</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">commenced operations in 1966</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Anti-Human Trafficking Co-ordination Unit</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>2009</found-date>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="LAS.IO.41" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Arab Fund for Technical Assistance to African Countries</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>1975 to provide technical assistance for development projects by providing African and Arab experts, grants for scholarships and training, and finance for technical studies</found-date>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="LAS.IO.44" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Central Boycott Office</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>1951 to prevent trade between Arab countries and Israel, and to enforce a boycott by Arab countries of companies outside the region that conduct trade with Israel</found-date>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Higher Auditing Board</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">comprises representatives of seven member states, elected every three years; undertakes financial and administrative auditing duties</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
               </org-list>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="LAS.IO.195130704" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Activities</heading>
          <p>
      In November 2023 the Arab League, with the 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="OIC.IO">Organization of Islamic Cooperation</xr>
      , convened a Joint Arab-Islamic Extraordinary Summit, in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, to address the situation in Gaza. A long-term common socioeconomic and institutional vision for Arab countries, Arab Vision 2045, was launched in December 2023 jointly by the Arab League and the 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.1110">Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia</xr>
      . The 33rd regular summit of heads of state, held in Manama, Bahrain, in May 2024, issued a communiqué that placed a particular focus on the continuing crisis in Gaza.
    </p>
          <int-org-section id="LAS.IO.10003" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Trade and Economic Co-operation</heading>
               <p usage="mena">The first meeting of the Council of Arab Economic Unity, mandated to administer a 1962 Arab Economic Unity Agreement, took place in June 1964. An Arab Common Market Agreement was endorsed by the Council in August. Customs duties and other taxes on trade between the member countries were to be eliminated in stages prior to the adoption of a full customs union, and ultimately all restrictions on trade between the member countries, including quotas, and restrictions on residence, employment and transport, were to be abolished. In practice, however, little progress was achieved in the development of an Arab common market during 1964-2000. In 2001 the Council of Arab Economic Unity's efforts towards liberalizing intra-Arab trade were intensified. A meeting of Council ministers responsible for the economy and trade convened in Baghdad, Iraq, in June, approved an executive pro­gramme for developing the proposed common market, determined to establish a compensation fund to support the integration of the least developed Arab states into the regional economy, and agreed to provide technical assistance for Arab states aiming to join the World Trade Organization.</p>
               <p>A number of multilateral organizations in industry and agriculture have been formed. Arab Joint Companies have been established for some industries, while others are co-ordinated through Arab Specialized Unions. A Unified Agreement for the Investment of Arab Capital in the Arab States entered into force in September 1981, and the statutes of an Arab Investment Court came into effect in February 1988 (the Court became operational in 2003). Council of Arab Economic Unity agreements aimed at encouraging Arab investment include an accord on Non-Double Taxation and Income Tax Evasion (adopted in December 1998); an accord on Investment Promotion and Protection (June 2000); and an accord on Investment Dispute Settlement in Arab Countries (December 2000).</p>
               <p>In February 1997 the Economic and Social Council adopted the Executive Programme of the (1981) Agreement to Facilitate and Develop Trade Among Arab Countries, with a view to creating a Greater Arab Free Trade Area (GAFTA). In February 2002 the Economic and Social Council agreed to bring forward the inauguration of GAFTA to 1 January 2005. Consequently, customs duties between most member states, which, according to schedule, had been reduced by 50% from January 1998-January 2002, were reduced further by 10% by January 2003, 20% by January 2004, and a final 20% by January 2005; Sudan and Yemen, as less developed economies, were to be subject to a parallel longer schedule of customs reductions. GAFTA (also known as the Pan-Arab Free Trade Area) entered into force, as planned, then with 17 participating countries. In 2009 Algeria became the 18th member of GAFTA, its membership by then accounting for about 96% of the total volume of intra-Arab trade. The Council agreed to supervise the implementation of the free trade agenda and formally to review its progress twice a year. The level of inter-Arab investments subsequently remained lower than anticipated, reportedly owing to restrictive degrees of bureaucracy and regulation.</p>
               <p>In September 2018 the Arab League and the International Islamic Trade Finance Corporation (ITFC) signed a formal MOU on co-operation in jointly co-ordinating the `design, financing and implementation’ of technical assistance and capacity building programmes. The MOU designated two ITFC programmes, Arab Africa Trade Bridges and Aid for Trade Initiative for Arab States (Phase 2), as specific formats for collaboration. The two organizations were also jointly to host regional conferences, training courses and workshops in support of trade development and the implementation of GAFTA.</p>
               <p>
        In May 2001 Egypt, Jordan, Morocco and Tunisia issued the Agadir Declaration in which they determined to establish an Arab Mediter­ran­ean Free Trade Zone. The so-called 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-DEVANDCO-OP.0001">Agadir Agreement</xr>
         on the establishment of a Free Trade Zone between the Arabic Mediterranean Nations was signed in February 2004, came into force in July 2006, and entered its implementation phase in March 2007. The signatories to the Agadir Agreement are also members of GAFTA.
      </p>
               <p>
        The inaugural Arab Economic, Development and Social Summit meeting of Arab leaders, held in January 2009, in Kuwait, under the auspices of the Arab League, considered means of accelerating progress towards the achievement of Arab economic integration; agreed to create a fully functioning Arab Customs Union and Arab Common Market; decided to launch a regional power grid and rail network; and agreed to launch a fund to finance Arab small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). Under the Arab Customs Union goods exempt from taxes were to comprise at least 40% of components originating in GAFTA member states. Participants at the third Summit, held in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, in January 2013, adopted the Riyadh Declaration, in which they determined, 
        <i>inter alia</i>
        , to strengthen the capacity of joint Arab institutions, including increasing by at least one-half the capital of joint financial institutions; and to implement the ongoing Pan-Arab Strategy for Promoting Renewable Energy. An Arab Customs Cooperation Agreement was approved in September 2015 by the League’s Economic and Social Council. In January 2019 the Fourth Arab Economic and Social Development Summit, held in Beirut, Lebanon, agreed a 29-point economic agenda, which included efforts to promote the full implementation of GAFTA and to support countries hosting large numbers of refugees. The Fifth Arab Development Summit, to be hosted by Mauritania, in Nouakchott, was initially scheduled to be held in November 2023, but was postponed in response to the crisis in Gaza.
      </p>
               <p>
        Since 2016 the Arab League and 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.1110">ESCWA</xr>
         have jointly organized an annual Arab Forum on Sustainable Development (AFSD), with participation by government officials, regional organizations, and representatives of civil society and of the private sector. The Forum focuses on the co-ordinated implementation and follow-up in the Arab region of the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and Sustainable Development Goals. The seventh session of the AFSD was held in March 2024, in Beirut, on the theme `Delivering for sustainability and peace’.
      </p>
               <p>
        In December 2019 the 23rd session of the Council of Arab Ministers of Communications and Information Technology initiated an Arab Digital Capital initiative, which aimed to advance digital knowledge in member states. In September 2021 the Arab Federation for Digital Economy (established in April 2018 by the Council of Arab Economic Unity) signed an agreement with a UAE-based company on the establishment of a new Arab digital data hub in Bahrain, to serve the League’s member states—with a focus on digital transformation, security, and data protection. The 26th session of the Council of Arab Ministers of Communications and Information Technology, convened in January 2023, adopted an Arab Digital Agenda to cover the period 2023-33, which had been jointly prepared by the Arab League and 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.1110">ESCWA.</xr>
         This was focused on five pillars: digital infrastructure, governance, economy, society, and culture, and aimed to mobilize related investment and partnerships. Tripoli (Libya) was designated as the Arab Digital Capital lead city for 2024.
      </p>
               <p usage="mena">In May 2020 the Arab League’s Economic Affairs Department issued a report addressing the initial impacts of the COVID-19 crisis on the overall Arab economy, as well as consequences for the health, agriculture, petroleum, aviation and tourism sectors, and for food security and development. The report urged the establishment of a dedicated crisis fund. In March 2021 the 45th meeting of Arab health ministers (held in a virtual format) agreed that an Arab Drug Authority should be established, and launched an Arab platform for the exchange of experiences and expertise in combating the pandemic emergency.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="LAS.IO.10005" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Environment and Water Resources</heading>
               <p>
        In 2011 the Arab League and ESCWA initiated the Regional Initiative for the Assessment of Climate Change Impacts on Water Resources and Socio-Economic Vulnerability in the Arab Region (RICCAR), a consultative evaluative process. In September 2017 RICCAR issued its first 
        <publ-name>Arab Climate Change Assessment Report.</publ-name>
         In March 2022 the Arab League, ESCWA and partners organized a workshop aimed at developing Arab nations’ capacity to participate in climate change negotiations, with a focus on climate adaptation (including smart agriculture), mitigation, technology and finance. The Arabic edition of the UN’s 6th 
        <publ-name>Global Environment Outlook</publ-name>
         was launched at a meeting of the Arab League in July.
      </p>
               <p usage="mena">In August 2023 the Arab League welcomed the completion of a UN-led operation to unload crude oil from a derelict oil tanker, the Safer, which was situated off the coast of Hodeidah (Yemen)—thereby preventing a possible environmental and humanitarian disaster.</p>
               <p>The inaugural Arab Environmental Forum, convened in October 2022, in Cairo, by the Arab League, ESCWA and the UN Environment Programme, discussed a common Arab vision on environmental issues to inform forthcoming global policy meetings. The second Arab Environmental Forum was convened in October 2023, in Muscat (Oman).</p>
               <p>The first session of an Arab Ministerial Water Council was convened in June 2009. The Council gave consideration to the development of an Arab Water Strategy; this was launched in March 2011. With support from the Arab League, the Council organized the fifth Arab Water Forum, which took place in September 2021, in Abu Dhabi, UAE, on the theme `Arab water security for peace and development’. An inaugural joint meeting of Arab ministers responsible for water and for agriculture was held in April 2019. The meeting adopted the Cairo Declaration, which urged Arab states and partners to harmonize policies across the water and agriculture sectors and to institutionalize related regional co-ordination mechanisms. The Arab League, the Islamic Development Bank and ESCWA collectively organized an event on the sidelines of the March 2023 World Water Conference that addressed regional efforts to transform the water sector and to develop cross-sectoral partnerships.</p>
               <p usage="mena">In June 2021 the Arab League’s foreign ministers issued a resolution that urged the UN Security Council to intervene to help resolve a protracted dispute between Egypt, Sudan and Ethiopia concerning Ethiopia’s construction on the Blue Nile (the principal tributary of the River Nile) of the controversial Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam, which was deemed by Egypt and Sudan to be a threat to their water security. In May 2023 Arab heads of state and of government emphasized their rejection of any action harmful to member states’ water rights.</p>
               <p>
        In December 2022 the Arab League, ESCWA and partners organized an Arab Forum for Agriculture, in Amman, Jordan, which addressed, 
        <i>inter alia,</i>
         the role of the private sector in sustainable agriculture development. A Strategy for Sustainable Arab Agricultural Development was being implemented during 2020-30, alongside an Arab Program for Sustaining Food Security that aimed to expand output of basic food commodities by a minimum of 30% by 2030. In March 2023 the League participated in an Arab regional preparatory meeting in advance of the inaugural global Food Systems Stocktaking Moment (the first follow-up conference of the September 2021 Food Systems Summit), which took place in Rome, Italy, in July.
      </p>
               <p>In October 2010 Arab League ministers responsible for electricity adopted a Pan-Arab Strategy for Promoting Renewable Energy, covering the period 2010-30. In September 2016 ministers responsible for foreign affairs approved a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on the creation of an Arab Common Market for Electricity; the preparation process was to be supported by the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development and the World Bank. In April 2017 the ministers responsible for energy of 14 Arab countries concluded an MOU that represented a commitment to the establishment of the proposed Arab Common Market for Electricity (two further Arab countries subsequently signed the MOU). In July 2020 an extraordinary meeting of Arab ministers responsible for energy, held in a virtual format, approved a General Agreement, outlining the planned Market’s objectives, and technical guidelines on its development and on the formation of its institutions. The meeting also endorsed an Arab Common Market for Electricity Agreement, defining the legal status of the Market’s institutions, and addressing its commercial dimension. A further accord covered operational rules for the Arab electricity networks. The eighth Arab Forum for Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency was held in Amman in September 2023.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <!--Promoting Arab Identity-->
          <int-org-section id="IO-LAS.1.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Human Rights</heading>
               <p>A Permanent Arab Commission on Human Rights was established in September 1968, with a primary focus on pursuing a settlement to the Arab-Israeli conflict. The Commission drafted an Arab Charter on Human Rights, which entered into force in January 2008, and provided for the election of a seven-member Arab Human Rights Committee that was inaugurated in March 2009. In February 2013 representatives of the League, jointly with human rights experts from other organizations, convened a conference which approved a set of recommendations aimed at strengthening the regional human rights&#160;protection legislative framework. These included amending the Arab Charter on Human Rights to clarify the League’s protection mandate and to ensure engagement with NGOs; strengthening the Arab Human Rights Committee; and amending the League’s Pact explicitly to mention respect for universal human rights standards. The establishment of an Arab Court on Human Rights was approved in principle by the March 2013 League summit. The Arab Interior Ministers Council (AIMC), initiated in 1982, aims to enhance security co-operation between member states, including by circulating arrest warrants. In June 2023 UN experts warned the Arab League that the AIMC’s policy on extradition was failing to assess potential risks of torture or ill-treatment.</p>
               <p>In September 2017 the Arab League and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees concluded an MOU on the development of a co-operation framework for providing an effective response to the high number of refugees being hosted in the Arab region.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="LAS.IO.10001" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Regional Security</heading>
               <p usage="mena">In 1950 Arab League member states concluded a Joint Defence and Economic Cooperation Treaty. An Arab Deterrent Force was established by the Arab League Council in June 1976 to supervise attempts at that time to cease hostilities in Lebanon; the Force's mandate was terminated in 1983.</p>
               <p>The Arab Convention for the Suppression of Terrorism, incorporating security and judicial measures, such as extradition arrangements and the exchange of evidence, entered into effect in May 2000. An Arab Counter-Terrorism Experts Group meets regularly.</p>
               <p>The creation of a joint Arab force was agreed upon by the Council in principle, in 2015. The 27th symposium for the heads of Arab armed forces’ training bodies was hosted in November 2023 by the League’s General Secretariat—with a particular focus on addressing the impacts of modern asymmetric wars on military operations and training. In September 2022 the League convened a Youth Online Dialogue on Peace and Security. A first Arab Regional Strategy on Youth, Peace and Security is under development. The third meeting of an Arab Network of Women Peace Mediators was convened in July 2023. The League dispatches missions to monitor elections in member states.</p>
               <p>In December 2023 the General Secretariat welcomed the withdrawal by the UN Security Council of a prolonged arms embargo against Somalia.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb">In January 2024 the League’s Secretary-General denounced an Iranian missile attack against several areas of Erbil, Iraq.</p>
               <p>In March 2013 the Arab League, the UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR), the UN Development Programme and other partners organized the First Arab Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction; the Conference launched an Arab Regional Platform on Disaster Risk Reduction. The Third Arab Preparatory Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction, held in Doha, Qatar, in April-May 2017, addressed regional progress on the implementation of the global Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction (covering 2015-30). An Arab Strategy for Disaster Risk Reduction up to 2030 was adopted by Arab League heads meeting in April 2018.</p>
               <p>
        In February 2016 the inaugural meeting of an Arab League Committee on Weather, Climate, and Hazards Information Management was organized, in Amman, to address means of combating disaster risks. In April 2018 the second biennial meeting of the Council of Arab Ministers for Meteorology and Climate Affairs addressed, 
        <i>inter alia</i>
        , weather and climate risk management, sand and dust warning systems, aeronautical meteorological services, and the development of a new Arab Climate Outlook Forum (ArabCOF). The 12th session of ArabCOF took place online in November 2023.
      </p>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Arab-Israeli Affairs</heading>
                    <p usage="edio mena">The League regards Palestine as an independent state and therefore as a full League member. In 1951 a Central Boycott Office was established, in Damascus, Syria, to oversee the prevention of trade between Arab countries and Israel, and to enforce a boycott by Arab countries of companies outside the region that conduct trade with Israel.</p>
                    <p usage="mena">
          In 1979 a meeting of the League’s Council resolved to suspend Egypt’s membership of the League on the date of the signing of its formal peace treaty with Israel (26 March) and to transfer the headquarters of the League to Tunis. In September 1982 the Council adopted a peace plan, which, 
          <i>inter alia, </i>
           demanded Israel’s withdrawal from territories occupied in 1967, the right of the Palestinian people to self-determination, under the leadership of the Palestine Liberation Organization, the creation of an independent Palestinian state, with Jerusalem as its capital, and a guarantee of peace for the states of the region by the UN Security Council. In June 1988 a summit conference agreed to provide finance for the Palestine Liberation Organization to continue the Palestinian uprising in Israeli-occupied territories. At a summit conference held in May 1989 Egypt was readmitted to the League, and support was expressed for proposals to convene an international conference to discuss the rights of Palestinians: in so doing, the League’s Council accepted UN Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338 on a peaceful settlement in the Middle East and thus gave tacit recognition to the State of Israel. In September 1993 the Council, convened in emergency session, approved the recently signed Israeli-Palestine Liberation Organization Oslo peace accords.
        </p>
                    <p usage="mena">In March 1997 the Council met in emergency session in response to the Israeli Government’s decision to proceed with construction of a new settlement at Har Homa (Jabal Abu-Ghunaim) in East Jerusalem. At the end of March ministers responsible for foreign affairs of Arab League states agreed to cease all efforts to secure normal diplomatic relations with Israel and to close diplomatic offices and missions while construction work continued in East Jerusalem. In October 2000 an emergency summit meeting, convened in response to mounting insecurity in Jerusalem and the Occupied Territories, accused Israel of inciting the ongoing violent disturbances by stalling the progress of the peace process. The summit endorsed the establishment of an Al-Aqsa Fund, with a value of US&#8201;$800m., to finance initiatives aimed at promoting the Arab and Islamic identity of Jerusalem, and a smaller Jerusalem Intifada Fund to support the families of Palestinians killed in the unrest. In May 2001 ministers responsible for foreign affairs determined that all political contact with Israel should be suspended in protest against aerial attacks by Israel on Palestinian targets in the West Bank.</p>
                    <p>In March 2002 a summit-level meeting of the Council of the Arab League unanimously endorsed, as the first (and thereafter enduring) pan-Arab peace initiative, a plan proposed by Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia aimed at brokering a peaceful settlement to the Palestinian-Israeli crisis. This entailed the restoration of `normal’ Arab relations with Israel and acceptance of its right to exist in peace and security, in exchange for a full Israeli withdrawal from the Occupied Territories, the establishment of an independent Palestinian state with East Jerusalem as its capital, and the return of refugees. The plan urged compliance with UN Security Council Resolution 194 concerning the return of Palestinian refugees to Israel, or appropriate compensation for their property; however, precise details of eligibility criteria for the proposed return, a contentious issue owing to the potentially huge numbers of refugees and descendants of refugees involved, were not elaborated. The possibility of limited exchanges of territory of equal value and size has been stated by the League.</p>
                    <p usage="mena">The March 2009 Arab League summit meeting condemned the intensive military assault on Gaza perpetrated by Israeli forces during late December 2008-mid-January 2009 (which had been conducted with the stated aim of ending rocket attacks against Israeli targets being launched by Palestinian militants. In June 2010, in response to an Israeli raid at the end of May on a flotilla of vessels carrying humanitarian aid through international waters towards the Gaza Strip, the Arab League Secretary-General demanded the termination of the blockade imposed since 2006 by Israel against Gaza.</p>
                    <p usage="edio mena">The final declaration of the March 2010 summit meeting, held in Sirte, Libya, mandated the formation of an Arab League legal committee to follow up the issue of the `judaization’ of East Jerusalem and the confiscation of Arab property, and to take these issues before national and international courts with appropriate jurisdiction. In March 2013 the meeting of League heads of state, convened in Doha, approved the establishment of an Arab East Jerusalem Fund, to finance projects and programmes that would maintain the Arab and Islamic character of the city.</p>
                    <p usage="edio mena">The Arab League has supported Palestine in its formal application for full admission to the UN. The UN General Assembly granted non-member observer status (and consequently recognition of de facto statehood) to Palestine in November 2012. In May 2024 the General Assembly adopted a resolution supporting in principle the admission of Palestine to full UN membership (q.v.).</p>
                    <p usage="mena">In July 2013 delegates of the Arab League met with the US Secretary of State to consider a US initiative to restart the Palestinian-Israeli peace talks; subsequently, the Arab League delegation issued a statement endorsing the initiative, and asserting that any future agreement must be based on a two-state solution, through the establishment of an independent Palestinian state in accordance with boundaries as at 4 June 1967.</p>
                    <p>In March 2014 Arab League heads of state reiterated that resolving the Palestinian situation remained the core regional challenge for member states. In mid-July an emergency meeting of Arab League ministers responsible for foreign affairs gathered to address an eruption of intense conflict in Gaza between the Israeli security forces (which had launched an air, sea and land military bombardment known as Protective Edge) and the Islamist militant and political organization Hamas. On 26 August, as a result of Arab League-backed talks, Israel and Hamas concluded an agreement on a truce; the Israeli authorities agreed to ease its blockade of the territory to permit access for humanitarian assistance and building materials. In December the League agreed to provide emergency funds to the Palestinian leadership, following Israel’s suspension of customs revenue transfers to the Palestinian (National) Authority (PA). In September 2015 the League’s Secretary-General expressed condemnation of a renewed storming by Israeli security forces of the al-Aqsa Mosque compound in Jerusalem.</p>
                    <p>An emergency meeting of Arab League officials was convened in April 2016 to address a recent declaration by Israel’s Prime Minister that Israel would never return annexed Golan to Syria. The Arab League Secretary-General proposed at that time that a special criminal court should be established to charge the Israeli regime with violations of the rights of Palestinians. In September the Arab League condemned a blockade imposed by Israel on 10 villages in the West Bank noting that this was being perpetrated in the context of the Israeli policy of collective punishment. The 28th Arab League summit, held in March 2017, urged the adoption of a UN resolution drawing attention to illegal Israeli settlements, and stated support for ongoing efforts to relaunch effective Palestinian-Israeli peace negotiations, based on the 2002 Arab peace initiative.</p>
                    <p usage="mena">In July 2017 an extraordinary session of Arab League ministers responsible for foreign affairs addressed a wave of violent unrest that had followed the murder earlier in that month, by armed Palestinians, of two Israeli police officers at the entrance to Jerusalem’s al-Aqsa Mosque compound, and a subsequent controversial attempt by the Israeli authorities to install metal detectors there.</p>
                    <p>In December 2017 an extraordinary session of the Arab League’s Council denounced as contrary to international law and potentially inflammatory a recent decision of US President Donald Trump to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. They demanded that the decision be overturned, and urged the international community to recognize the state of Palestine, and East Jerusalem as its capital. The Arab League Secretary-General condemned the Israeli military’s violent suppression at the end of March 2018 of a `Great March of Return’ protest undertaken by Palestinians near the Gaza-Israel border, which had resulted in at least 16 Palestinian fatalities. An emergency meeting of Arab League foreign ministers was convened in mid-May to address the relocation of the US embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, and the recent killing by Israeli security forces of some 61 Palestinians in Gaza who had been protesting the relocation. The meeting determined to take political or economic measures against any country that recognized Jerusalem as the Israeli capital, and demanded an international investigation into crimes committed against the Palestinians in Gaza.</p>
                    <p>
          In July 2018 the Arab League condemned legislation recently adopted by the Israeli Knesset that defined Israel as `the Nation-State of the Jewish People’ and revoked the previous status of Arabic as an official language in that country. A meeting of ministers responsible for foreign affairs was convened in September to address a recent decision by the US Administration to close the Palestinian diplomatic mission in Washington, DC, USA, as well as a recent decision by the US Administration to cease funding of the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.1643">UN Relief and Works Agency</xr>
           (UNRWA). In March 2019 the 30th summit meeting of Arab League heads of state rejected as invalid under international law a recent US decision to recognize Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. In November, meeting in emergency session, Arab League ministers responsible for foreign affairs denounced a recent statement by the US Administration that the USA no longer regarded Israel’s demolition of Palestinian settlements as a breach of international law. The Secretary-General emphasized at that time that the USA could not be accepted as a neutral arbiter between Palestinians and Israel. On 1 February 2020 a further emergency session of Arab League foreign ministers, with participation by the PA President, Mahmoud Abbas, dismissed an Israeli-Palestinian peace plan recently proposed by US President Trump, designating it as biased towards Israel and a setback to the peace process. During the gathering Abbas announced that Palestine had severed relations with Israel and the USA. However, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the UAE urged careful consideration of the plan, and for a resumption of Palestinian-Israeli dialogue, under US auspices.
        </p>
                    <p>In September 2020 the PA relinquished its occupancy of the (rotational) chairmanship of meetings of the League’s Council in strong protest at failure by the Council to agree a resolution condemning the formal signature on 15 September by Bahrain and the UAE, in Washington, DC, USA, of agreements (facilitated by the US Administration, and known as the `Abraham Accords’) that established formal relations with Israel. The PA accused the Council of demonstrating a `regression’ of its values and principles. Morocco and Israel normalized relations in December, and in early 2021 Sudan signed the Abraham Accords. (Egypt and Jordan already had full diplomatic relations with Israel.) An emergency meeting of the Council convened in February in Cairo emphasized the need for a two-state solution to the Israel-Palestine situation. At that time the Secretary-General urged the international community to translate support for a two-state solution into practical actions.</p>
                    <p>In mid-May 2021—against the background of an intensification of clashes at Jerusalem’s al-Aqsa Mosque compound and a severe escalation of Hamas-Israeli conflict—Arab League ministers responsible for foreign affairs, meeting in a virtual format, urged the International Criminal Court to mobilize resources to expedite an investigation into crimes allegedly perpetrated by Israel against the Palestinian people. These included the planned eviction of several Palestinian families from East Jerusalem’s Sheikh Jarrah neighbourhood, and the alleged use of grenades and tear gas against Muslim worshippers at the al-Aqsa Mosque. The League’s Council urged the UN Security Council to take action to protect the Palestinian people. A ceasefire between Hamas and Israel, mediated by Egypt, entered into effect on 21 May. In May 2022 the Arab League’s Secretary-General rejected, as a violation of international law, controversial comments by the then Israeli Prime Minister, Naftali Bennett, that claimed Israeli sovereignty over Jerusalem. Meeting in Cairo, in August, representatives of national boycott offices determined to reinforce efforts to boycott Israel. In November the 31st regular Arab League summit of heads of state and government affirmed the `centrality’ to the organization of the Palestinian cause. In early February 2023—noting a deterioration in the Palestine-Israel situation since the election in December 2022 of a particularly hardline Israeli administration—the Arab League’s Secretary-General condemned ongoing `open war’ and `organized Israeli crimes’ being perpetrated against the Palestinian people. Addressing a meeting of the Arab League’s Council held in early March 2023 he reiterated the need for joint Arab action in support of Palestine. In mid-March a senior League official condemned the approval by the Israeli Knesset of a proposal to amend national legislation (in contravention of international law) to enable Israelis to return to four settlements in the West Bank that had been evacuated in 2005. Soon afterwards the League’s General Secretariat deplored recent remarks by an Israeli government minister that appeared to deny the existence of the Palestinian people. In July 2023 the League’s Secretary-General condemned as `brutal’ and `criminal’, and as `collective punishment and revenge’, a massive Israeli operation against the Jenin Palestinian refugee camp in the West Bank, that involved at least 10 drone strikes and an estimated 2,000 troops.</p>
                    <p>
          An emergency meeting of the Arab League’s Council, requested by Palestine and Iraq, was organized on 11 October 2023, in Cairo, following the devastating escalation of Islamist-Israeli conflict. The League’s foreign affairs ministers condemned Israel’s blockade of Gaza, and demanded immediate access to the enclave for deliveries of food, fuel and other humanitarian aid. In addition, Israel was urged to resume supplies of water and electricity, to uphold its obligations under international law as an occupying power (including ensuring the protection of unarmed civilians), and to enter into serious negotiations on achieving a two-state outcome. Israel’s continued occupation of Palestinian territory was deemed a root cause of the recent violence (which had escalated on 7 October when Islamist militants launched an attack on Israeli territory, killing 1,200 people and taking 250 hostages). Addressing a meeting of Arab League ministers responsible for justice that was held on 16 October, in the Iraqi capital, Baghdad, the Arab League Secretary-General demanded the cessation of Israeli military operations in Gaza and of the siege of the enclave, deeming these to be `paving the way for ethnic cleansing’. On the following day he condemned the bombing (attributed by each warring party to the other) of Gaza’s Al-Ahli Arab Hospital, which had caused numerous casualties. On 21 October Arab states and the UN Secretary-General participated in a Cairo Peace Summit that was organized by the Egyptian Government to address the humanitarian crisis in Gaza; the participants called for unhindered assistance to besieged Palestinian civilians; the unconditional and immediate release of all hostages kidnapped from Israel by Hamas; and a focus on preventing the further escalation of the ongoing violence. On 24 October the Arab League Secretary-General and ministers responsible for foreign affairs, gathered at the Saudi Arabian mission to the UN, in New York, USA, reiterated demands for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza and an end to the siege of the enclave, and called for a return to peace negotiations. A draft UN Security Council resolution on the crisis, proposed by the USA, was rejected by the League, on the grounds that it did not clearly call for a ceasefire, and was deemed to undermine Palestinian resistance to the Israeli occupation and to term that broadly as terrorism. On 11 November the Arab League organized a joint extraordinary summit meeting, in Riyadh, with the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="OIC.IO">Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC)</xr>
          , which issued a collective condemnation of Israeli aggression and demand for an immediate ceasefire and full access for the provision of humanitarian aid. The meeting called upon the UN Security Council to demand an end to Israel’s `brutal and inhumane’ acts of collective punishment, and rejected any justification of the actions as being in self-defence. There was no consensus between members on punitive diplomatic or economic sanctions to be imposed against Israel. A dedicated Joint Arab Ministerial Committee was appointed to address the crisis. In December the League denounced a decision by Israel to repurpose Palestinian lands in Silwan, East Jerusalem for the construction of a cable car line.
        </p>
                    <p>An extraordinary meeting of the Council was held in January 2024 at the level of permanent delegates to discuss the continuing siege of Gaza. In March the Arab League vehemently condemned an Israeli decision to seize, with a view to settlement, Palestinian land in the Jordan Valley area of the West Bank. The League’s Secretary-General welcomed a resolution adopted at that time by the UN Security Council that demanded an immediate ceasefire in Gaza for the remainder of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, as well as for an increase in the flow of humanitarian aid, guaranteed humanitarian access to the enclave, and the immediate release of all hostages detained there.</p>
                    <p>
          In May 2024 the 33rd regular summit, convened in Bahrain, welcomed the efforts of the Joint Arab Ministerial Committee (appointed in November 2023), and emphasized the need for the immediate withdrawal of Israeli forces from all areas of Gaza, the lifting of the siege imposed on the enclave, and the opening of all crossings to enable the entry of adequate humanitarian assistance and the full operation of UNRWA and of other UN agencies. Ongoing Israeli aggression against Rafah (southern Gaza) despite international warnings of potentially catastrophic humanitarian consequences, was condemned. A joint Arab effort to provide humanitarian support to Gaza, in co-operation with UN agencies, was called for. The summit categorically rejected any attempts forcibly to displace the Palestinian people from Gaza or the West Bank, including East Jerusalem, and reiterated that resolving the Palestinian issue remained the foundation for achieving peace and stability in the region. The international community was called upon to implement all relevant Security Council resolutions, including to take decisive measures to end the Israeli occupation of Arab territories. The need was emphasized for Israel to cease all illegal actions (including, 
          <i>inter alia</i>
          , the expansion of settlements and confiscation of Palestinian land) that violate the rights of the Palestinian people and undermine the two-state solution. The summit stressed the need to halt all Israeli military operations and settler terrorism against Palestinians in the occupied West Bank, and to end all measures that impede the growth of the Palestinian economy. All Israeli attempts aimed at the `judaization’ of Jerusalem were condemned. The summit called for the deployment of UN international protection and peacekeeping forces in the occupied Palestinian territory until the implementation of a two-state solution. A recent decision of the UN General Assembly supporting full UN membership for Palestine was welcomed, and the UN Security Council was urged to take note.
        </p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading usage="mena edio">Iraq</heading>
                    <p usage="mena">
          In September 2002 the Arab League’s Council, concerned at US threats to attack Iraq in view of its failure to implement UN resolutions, reiterated its complete opposition to the threat of aggression against any Arab country, including Iraq, and demanded the withdrawal of the sanctions against that country. In mid-September, following an ultimatum by the USA that military action against Iraq would ensue were the UN to fail within a short time limit to ensure the elimination of any Iraqi-held weapons of mass destruction, the Arab League urged Iraq to negotiate the return of a UN Monitoring, Verification and Inspection Commission (UNMOVIC). Soon afterwards, following tripartite consultations between the Secretary-General of the League, the UN Secretary-General and the Iraqi foreign minister, Iraq agreed to admit UNMOVIC personnel. An emergency meeting of the Council, convened in early November, reviewed the recent adoption by the UN Security Council of Resolution 1441, establishing a strict time frame for Iraqi compliance with UN demands and authorizing the use of force against Iraq in response to non-compliance. The Council urged Iraq to co-operate with UNMOVIC and 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.1837">IAEA</xr>
           inspection teams, requested the inclusion of Arab weapons inspectors in the teams, and urged that the resolution should not be used as a pretext to launch a war against Iraq, emphasizing the importance of a peaceful resolution of the situation. In March 2003 Arab League heads of state issued a final communiqué rejecting threatened aggression against Iraq and urging that the inspectors be given enough time to complete their work. Later in that month, following the initiation of US-led military action against the Saddam Hussain regime, the Arab League participated in a meeting of Arab organizations convened to consider means of assisting the Iraqi people. In March 2006 the League determined to establish a mission in Iraq to contribute to that country's rehabilitation and national reconciliation.
        </p>
                    <p usage="mena edio">In August 2014 the Arab League Secretary-General denounced as crimes against humanity atrocities being committed against Yazidi and Christian minorities in northern Iraq by militants of the terrorist organization Islamic State (known until June of that year as the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant) and demanded that the perpetrators be brought to international justice. In September a meeting of the Council, convened at ministerial level, adopted a resolution that called for the implementation of immediate (unspecified) measures to combat Islamic State at the political, defence, security and legal level.</p>
                    <p usage="mena edio">In December 2015 an emergency meeting of Arab League ministers responsible for foreign affairs, convened in Cairo at the request of the Iraqi Government, demanded that Turkey (now known as Türkiye) withdraw its military presence from northern Iraq; this demand was reiterated at the March 2017 summit meeting of heads of state. In September the Arab League rejected a referendum on proposed Kurdish independence that was—in contravention of the federal Iraqi Constitution—organized by the Kurdistan Regional Government. In March 2018, following an announcement by the Iraqi authorities in December 2017 that Islamic State had been defeated in Iraq, the Arab League organized an Iraq reconstruction exhibition and conference, in Cairo.</p>
                    <p usage="mena edio">In January 2024 the League’s Secretary-General denounced an Iranian missile attack against several areas of Erbil, Iraq.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Lebanon</heading>
                    <p>
          The Arab League participates in the International Support Group (ISG) for Lebanon (see under 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.PB.0004.1">UNSCOL</xr>
          ) which was established by the UN Secretary-General in September 2013, and also comprises representatives of the UN, EU, People’s Republic of China, France, Germany, Italy, Russia, UK and USA.
        </p>
                    <p>An Arab League observer mission was deployed to monitor a general election that was held in Lebanon in May 2022. The League’s Secretary-General consistently emphasized the need to elect a new Lebanese President, to resolve the political vacuum that prevailed following the end of the term of office in October 2022 of former President Michel Aoun. In May 2024 Arab heads of state and of government urged all Lebanese parties to prioritize the election of a new president and to strengthen the work of constitutional institutions, address ongoing political and security challenges, implement economic reforms, and enhance the capabilities of the Lebanese Armed Forces and Internal Security Forces to maintain national stability and protect Lebanon’s internationally recognized borders against Israeli aggressions.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Libya</heading>
                    <p>
          In May 2014 the Arab League Secretary-General appointed a Special Envoy to Libya, where there had been a significant escalation in political and violent unrest (see under 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.PB.UNSMIL.01">the UN Support Mission in Libya—UNSMIL)</xr>
          . A series of consultative regional ministerial meetings on the security situation in Libya took place during that year. An emergency meeting of the Arab League’s Council, held in February 2015, following the beheading by Islamic State extremists of 21 Coptic Christians in Libya, sanctioned air strikes that had recently been initiated by Egypt against Islamic State targets in Libya. In May 2016 the Arab League Council, meeting at the level of ministers responsible for foreign affairs, reaffirmed the League’s support for the Government of National Accord (GNA) as the legitimate governing body in Libya and agreed that military intervention in Libya could only be authorized at the request of the GNA. In September a new Special Envoy for Libya was appointed.
        </p>
                    <!--~ Feb. 2015 League meeting urged the UN to withdraw its embargo on the sale of arms to Libya (imposed in 2011), to facilitate operations to counter the ongoing militant insurgency there Dec 2019 - League opposed to foreign intervention; Feb. 2015 Egyptian attack on Islamic State and call for end to arms sanctions seen differently, -->
                    <p>
          In March 2017 an Arab League-UN-AU-EU Quartet formation was established as a joint framework for co-ordinating efforts to address the Libyan crisis. In September Arab League foreign ministers urged the UN to release Libya’s frozen international assets in order to enable the Presidency Council to fund better national services. In September 2018 the Arab League Secretary-General welcomed efforts by the UN Envoy to Libya to secure a ceasefire between warring militias in the Libyan capital, which had recently been placed under a state of emergency. At a meeting between the Arab League Secretary-General and the UN Envoy held in September 2019 the Arab League Secretary-General emphasized that there should not be foreign intervention in Libya’s internal affairs. Meeting in an emergency session in December, the Council addressed efforts (initiated in April) by forces of the eastern Libyan National Army (LNA) military commander Khalifa Haftar to seize control of Tripoli from the GNA. It reaffirmed that both the GNA and LNA had received foreign support, in violation of a UN arms embargo against Libya that had been imposed in 2011. (In late November Türkiye—known as Turkey until June 2022—had agreed to send military support to the GNA, while Egypt and also Jordan, Russia and the UAE, were backing the LNA.) The Arab League participates, with the AU, the EU, the UN and several partner countries, in the International Follow-Up Committee on Libya, established in February 2020, following an international conference on Libya that had been convened in Berlin, Germany, in January. The Arab League, 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.PB.UNSMIL.01">UNSMIL</xr>
          , Algeria and Germany chair the Berlin Process Political Working Group. In March the League Council adopted a resolution condemning `Turkish interference in the internal affairs of Arab countries’. Following a ceasefire concluded between the Haftar and GNA forces in August, the Arab League urged Libyan stakeholders to engage constructively to achieve a united resolution to the Libyan crisis.
        </p>
                    <p>In February 2021 the Arab League’s Secretary-General welcomed the election, by a UN-facilitated Libyan Political Dialogue Forum, of a transitional Government of National Unity (GNU), which was to preside pending the outcome of a general election scheduled to be held later in the year. In March, following the formal inauguration of the new interim authority, the Secretary-General and the Libyan Minister of Foreign Affairs discussed means of enhancing Arab support for Libya, and of advancing joint Arab action. Representatives of the Arab League participated in the Second Berlin Conference on Libya (`Berlin II’), hosted by the German Government and UN on 23 June. At the end of August the Arab League’s Secretary-General, the AU Commissioner for Political Affairs, Peace and Security, the UN Special Envoy for Libya, and the foreign ministers of Algeria, Chad, Egypt, Libya, Niger, Nigeria, Sudan and Tunisia, participated in a further `Libya’s neighbours’ conference, hosted by Algeria. Its final communiqué reaffirmed rejection of all forms of foreign interference in Libya’s internal affairs, and called for the withdrawal from Libya’s territory of all foreign fighters, mercenaries and troops. The participants decided to send a ministerial delegation to Libya to contact all stakeholders, with a view to pursuing a political resolution of continuing tensions. In early September the Arab Parliament welcomed the outcome of the conference. At that time a Ministerial Council meeting passed a resolution that demanded that Türkiye cease interfering in Libya and undertaking operations in Syria. Later in September the League’s Secretary-General stated concern over the recent passing by the House of Representatives of a motion of no-confidence against the GNU, and emphasized that a general election scheduled to be held in Libya on 24 December must proceed; the election was, however, postponed, in the absence of an agreed legal framework. In February 2022 the House of Representatives appointed a rival Prime Minister to the leader (Abdul Hamid Dbeibah) of the GNU, deeming the mandate of the GNU and the term of Dbeibah’s premiership to have expired. The Secretary-General subsequently urged all Libyan stakeholders to work responsibly towards establishing political, security and legal conditions that would enable the pending national elections to be held promptly. In September Egypt’s minister responsible for foreign affairs withdrew from a League Council session chaired by the GNU’s foreign affairs minister, protesting the legitimacy of her role as Libyan national representative. Shortly afterwards the League’s Secretary-General welcomed the appointment of a new UN Special Envoy to Libya (that role having been vacant since December 2021). Egypt’s minister responsible for foreign affairs, again, and also the League’s Secretary-General and, reportedly, the foreign ministers of Saudi Arabia and the UAE refused to participate in a meeting of the Council that was chaired by the GNU’s foreign affairs minister in January 2023. The League’s General Secretariat stated grave concern over armed clashes that erupted in that month in Tripoli. In August the League’s General Secretariat welcomed the completion of a process, initiated in January 2022, to unify the Central Bank of Libya (its institutions having been divided during the period of national civil conflict). Representation of the League’s General Secretariat participated in a summit meeting of the AU High-Level Committee on Libya that was convened in February 2024, in Brazzaville, Republic of the Congo. In March the League’s Secretary-General organized a meeting, in Cairo, between the heads of Libya’s Presidential Council and High State Council and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, at which the participants agreed on the need to form a unified administration tasked with organizing national elections, and decided to form a technical committee to address outstanding controversial issues. In May the 33rd regular summit called on the House of Representatives and the High State Council promptly to agree on the issuance of acceptable electoral laws that would enable the simultaneous staging, as soon as possible, of legislative and presidential elections.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading usage="ewyb edio">Sudan</heading>
                    <p usage="ewyb edio">
          In December 2022 the League’s Secretary-General welcomed a Political Framework Agreement that had been signed by the Sudanese military authorities and a coalition of civilian leaders. Conclusive agreement remained elusive into 2023, however, including with regard to the proposed integration into the Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF) of the powerful paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF, formed in 2013, and reportedly supported by the Wagner Group, a Russian private paramilitary and security contractor). On 15 April 2023 the ongoing RSF-SAF tensions erupted into violent clashes across the Sudanese capital, Khartoum, and elsewhere, resulting in numerous fatalities. The RSF soon claimed to have taken control of Khartoum International Airport, provincial airports and the presidential palace. An emergency meeting of the League’s ministers responsible for foreign affairs convened on the following day called for a ceasefire; shortly afterwards the League’s Secretary-General reiterated calls to the warring parties to lay down arms, in advance of the Eid al-Fitr religious festival. On 20 April a meeting to discuss means of addressing the crisis, convened (in a virtual format) between the UN Secretary-General, Arab League Secretary-General, AU Commission Chairperson and Executive Secretary of the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="IGAD.IO">Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD)</xr>
           established an Expanded Mechanism on the Sudan Crisis. The Expanded Mechanism—comprising a broad group of international stakeholders—was tasked with co-ordinating and harmonizing subregional, continental and international efforts to facilitate a peaceful resolution of the conflict. An extraordinary ministerial-level session of the Arab League Council, convened in early May, formed a liaison committee tasked with promoting a ceasefire in Sudan and the installation of humanitarian corridors. Meanwhile, RSF and SAF negotiating teams participated in talks mediated by Saudi Arabia and the USA, in Jeddah (referred to as the `Jeddah platform’). A Jeddah Declaration of Commitment to Protect the Civilians of Sudan was signed by the SAF and RSF on 11 May. At the end of that month, however, the SAF suspended its participation in the talks, having accused the RSF of lack of commitment. Meanwhile, the AU’s Peace and Security Council adopted an AU Roadmap for the Resolution of the Conflict in Sudan, which had been formulated in close collaboration with Sudanese stakeholders; this advocated for the peace process to be led jointly by the AU, UN, Arab League, IGAD, and other partners. In mid-July the SAF and RSF—as well as states neighbouring Sudan, the Arab League Secretary-General and the AU Commission Chairperson—participated in a summit in Cairo, that was chaired by Egypt’s President Abd al-Fatah al-Sisi. The participants in the summit agreed to the formation of a mechanism focused on ending the conflict that was to comprise the ministers responsible for foreign affairs of the states neighbouring Sudan. During July the Arab League donated medical assistance to Sudan, and in August the League, the Egyptian Government and the Egyptian Red Crescent jointly dispatched a humanitarian and social aid convoy there. In December the Expanded Mechanism demanded that the SAF and RSF agree to a ceasefire and called on both parties to facilitate safe humanitarian access to civilians. The League’s Secretary-General participated in an extraordinary 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="IGAD.IO">IGAD</xr>
           summit that was convened in January 2024 to address the continuing crisis in Sudan. The League supported a Declaration of Principles issued by a ministerial meeting held for advancing Sudan peace initiatives that was held in April, on the occasion of an international humanitarian conference for Sudan and neighbouring countries, convened in Paris, France. In May heads of state and of government called for the implementation of the (May 2023) Jeddah Declaration, and urged the Sudanese Government and RSF to engage seriously and effectively with initiatives aimed at resolving the conflict.
        </p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Syrian Arab Republic</heading>
                    <p>In mid-November 2011, further to the Syrian Government’s ongoing violent repression of political opponents and civilian demonstrators, an emergency meeting of Arab League ministers responsible for foreign affairs voted to suspend Syria from participation in meetings of the League, and to impose economic and diplomatic sanctions. In March 2012 a newly appointed Joint Special Envoy of the UN and the Arab League on the Syrian Crisis, Kofi Annan (formerly the UN Secretary-General), proposed a six-point plan to achieve a ceasefire and political settlement. Arab League heads of state, gathered later in that month at a summit meeting in Baghdad, endorsed the initiative, and called for its immediate and full implementation. In late June the Secretaries-General of the Arab League and the UN, as well as the ministers responsible for foreign affairs of China, France, Russia, the UK, the USA, Turkey (called Türkiye from mid-2022), Iraq, Kuwait, Qatar, and the High Representative of the EU for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, gathered in Geneva, Switzerland, as the `Action Group for Syria’, under the chairmanship of the Joint Special Envoy, to address the ongoing conflict in Syria. The so-called Geneva I conference agreed that a transitional government of national unity should be established in Syria, including members of both the opposition and the present Government, and that this should be tasked with overseeing the drafting of a new constitution and subsequent staging of national elections. On 22 July, by which time the violence in Syria had further intensified, and the situation was deemed to be a civil war, an emergency meeting of Arab ministers responsible for foreign affairs agreed that President al-Assad should resign and leave the country, and that opposition parties should form a government of national unity. In early August, in view of the failure of the parties to the Syrian conflict to adhere to the six-point peace plan, and of divisions within the UN Security Council over Syria, Annan announced his resignation as Joint Special Envoy; the Arab League and UN appointed a Joint Special Representative on Syria, Lakhdar Brahimi, who succeeded Annan at the beginning of September.</p>
                    <p usage="edio mena ">In November 2012 the Arab League formally recognized the National Coalition for Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces as Syria’s `legitimate representative and main interlocutor with the Arab League’. The National Coalition represented Syria at meetings of the League during 2013-14, but, reportedly owing to divisions amongst League member states over the issue, was not subsequently invited.</p>
                    <p usage="mena">
          A meeting of Arab League ministers responsible for foreign affairs convened in early September 2013, in Cairo—following the alleged use on 21 August of chemical weapons against unarmed civilians in the rebel-held area of Ghouta, Damascus, to lethal effect—urged the UN Security Council and the international community to take `deterrent’ measures against the Syrian regime, which it accused of being responsible for the alleged chemical attack. A meeting held shortly afterwards, in Paris, France, between the US Secretary of State and the leaders of Bahrain, Egypt, Jordan, Kuwait, Morocco, the PA, Qatar and Saudi Arabia, also accused the al-Assad regime of using chemical weapons, and stated that the regime had thereby transgressed an international `red line’; however, the League member states participating in the meeting did not commit to endorsing a US proposal that punitive military action should be launched against the Syrian regime. In early September the Russian Minister of Foreign Affairs, the US Secretary of State and the Joint Special Representative on Syria gave consideration to a proposal by Russia that Syria should surrender its chemical stockpiles to international control. Soon afterwards, the Syrian regime notified the UN Secretary-General that it was taking measures to accede to the 1992 Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on their Destruction, and would observe the obligations imposed by the Convention prior to its national entry into force. In mid-October the UN Security Council authorized the deployment of a joint UN mission with the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.38">Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW)</xr>
          , tasked with supervising the destruction by the Syrian authorities, by the end of June 2014, of Syria’s chemical weapons stockpiles and production facilities (q.v.). In May Lakhdar Brahimi resigned as the Joint UN-Arab League Special Representative on Syria. From July a Special Envoy of the UN Secretary-General, solely, to Syria was appointed. A meeting of Arab League and 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="WB02047.IO.TXT">EU</xr>
           ministers responsible for foreign affairs, convened in June, agreed to co-operate in addressing issues surrounding the radicalization and recruitment of combatants from EU member states who were participating in, and returning from, the Syrian civil war. The ministers also deemed the presidential election held in Syria earlier in that month—that had returned President Bashar al-Assad to a further seven-year term of office—to have been neither credible nor conducive to resolving the political situation there. At the end of September the UN-OPCW mission was terminated, having completed its mandated tasks. In August 2015 the Security Council established a Joint UN-OPCW Investigative Mechanism, tasked with identifying and holding accountable entities engaged in using chemical weapons in Syria. In November 2017, however, owing to disagreement within the UN Security Council concerning the proposed terms of its renewal, the Mechanism was terminated.
        </p>
                    <p>
          In November 2015 representatives of the Arab League, the UN, the EU and the ministers responsible for foreign affairs of the USA, Russia (which in September had decided to intervene militarily in Syria, in support of the al-Assad regime), and 15 other states—meeting in Vienna, Austria, as the `International Syria Support Group’ (ISSG)—determined that political talks between the Syrian Government and opposition factions should commence in January 2016, in Geneva, with a view to expediting an end to the Syrian conflict and to accelerating agreement on a new Syrian constitution, governance structure and elections schedule. (See under the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="UN.IO.PB.SYRIAENVOY.1">Office of the Special Envoy of the UN Secretary-General for Syria</xr>
           for fuller details on the UN-sponsored Syrian peace process.) In September the Arab League Secretary-General condemned an intensification of air strikes on eastern districts of Aleppo by Syrian and Russian warplanes (which during that year had increasingly targeted rebel-held areas)—these having caused numerous civilian deaths and injuries. The Secretary-General designated the escalation as `dangerous’ and `brutal’, and as rooted in a false belief that the Syrian civil war might be resolved through military action, and urged the international community to intervene to halt the devastating impact on civilians. He participated in a meeting of the ISSG that was held on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly in that month, at which it was agreed that a recent ceasefire arrangement must be upheld, and that it was of critical importance that the conditions necessary for the resumption of the UN-led political talks on Syria should be fostered. A renewed ceasefire—facilitated by Russia, Türkiye and Iran—entered into effect on 30 December. In April 2017 the Arab League Secretary-General condemned as a `major crime’ a reported recent chemical attack on the northwestern Syrian community of Khan Sheikhoun.
        </p>
                    <p>In March 2016 the Arab League formally designated the militant Lebanon-based grouping Hezbollah—which had been providing support to the al-Assad regime—as a terrorist organization. During that month the League refused to recognize the newly unilaterally declared Kurdish Federation in northern Syria, while emphasizing that the reunification of Syria was crucial for the restoration of regional stability.</p>
                    <p>In April 2018 Arab League heads of state condemned a recent alleged use of chemical weapons against civilians in eastern Ghouta, Syria and requested an independent international investigation into the incident. From September an offensive by US-supported Kurdish-led Syrian defence forces recaptured significant swathes of territory from Islamic State; Raqqa, which had effectively been the capital of Islamic State’s self-styled caliphate, was recaptured in October. In March 2019 the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces took Islamic State’s final territorial stronghold, the Syrian town of Baghouz Fawqani, thereby broadly defeating Islamic State’s five-year illegal caliphate. In September the League welcomed the formation of a broad-based committee that was to draft a new Constitution for Syria. In February 2021 the Arab Union for Productive Families and Traditional and Developed Industries, a body affiliated to the League’s Council of Arab Economic Unity, established a regional office in Damascus, representing the first Arab League active engagement within Syria since 2011. In March 2022 the League Council reiterated its condemnation of Türkiye’s operations in Syria as a violation of the UN Charter, and determined to establish a committee on Türkiye’s `intervention’ in the internal affairs of other Arab countries. In the same month, addressing the UN Security Council, the Arab League’s Secretary-General stated concern over the implications for peace in Syria of Russia’s war in Ukraine, and the ongoing confrontation between the USA and Russia (through the former’s imposition of severe economic sanctions against the latter). He noted that Russia had provided support to the Syrian regime, and the USA to forces opposed to President al-Assad. In March 2023, the Syrian Government declared that it would not seek any reconciliation with Türkiye, unless Türkiye withdrew all of its proxy forces from Syria.</p>
                    <p>On 7 May 2023 the Arab League Council agreed to readmit Syria to participation in the League, following a recent period of increased diplomatic engagement between some member states and the Syrian regime (which by then had regained control of much of the country), including the provision of humanitarian aid to areas devastated by an earthquake that struck parts of northern Syria and southern Türkiye in February. The Council also determined to establish a Ministerial Liaison Committee—comprising Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon and Saudi Arabia—to support a full resolution of the 12-year long civil conflict, and to address the consequent massive domestic population displacement and regional refugee crises, and also an expansion of illegal drug trafficking attributed to deteriorating economic conditions and opportunities caused by the conflict. By that time more than 300,000 civilians were reported to have been killed during the war, and a further 100,000 to have been detained or to have disappeared. In mid-May President al-Assad participated in the 32nd regular summit of Arab League heads of state. It was reported in September that the new Ministerial Liaison Committee had suspended meetings with representatives of the al-Assad regime, in view of a failure by Syria to co-operate with efforts by the League to mediate talks on facilitating the repatriation of the large population of Syrian refugees sheltering in Lebanon, or to discuss ending the trade in Captagon (fenethylline), an illegal amphetamine mass produced within Syria. In early October the League strongly condemned a lethal drone attack against a Syrian state military academy in Homs that had killed at least 80 people, and wounded some 240 others. President al-Assad participated in May in the 33rd regular summit, which emphasized the need to resolve the conflict in Syria, and rejected interference by foreign actors in that country’s internal affairs. The importance of the role of the Ministerial Liaison Committee was stressed.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Yemen</heading>
                    <p>In March 2015 Arab League heads of state expressed support for a military operation, Decisive Storm, led by Saudi Arabia against the Shi’a Houthi insurgency in Yemen. While the operation officially concluded in April, coalition air strikes against rebel positions continued. An extraordinary meeting of Arab League ministers responsible for foreign affairs, convened in Makkah, Saudi Arabia, in May 2020, addressed continuing attacks against oil facilities in Saudi Arabia by Houthi militias. In January 2021 the Secretary-General stated support for the new power-sharing Government installed in Yemen in mid-December 2020, in accordance with the Saudi Arabia-mediated Riyadh Agreement process. The Arab League supported the UN-negotiated ceasefire that was implemented during April-October 2022, and in December 2023 welcomed a commitment by the parties to a series of measures aimed at underpinning a nationwide ceasefire, ameliorating living conditions for the Yemeni population, and advancing progress towards the resumption of a UN-mediated inclusive political process. In May 2024 heads of state and of government reaffirmed support for UN and regional efforts aimed at reaching a comprehensive political solution to the Yemeni crisis. The right to freedom of navigation in the Red Sea, Arabian Sea, Gulf of Oman and Arabian Gulf was upheld, and threats to commercial shipping condemned (with regard to recent Houthi attacks on maritime routes).</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="LAS.EXTRELS.IO.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>External Relations</heading>
               <p usage="mena">The inaugural meeting within a new consultation framework uniting the Secretaries-General of the Arab League, the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), the OIC and the Union of the Arab Maghreb was convened in September 2014.</p>
               <p>In March 2022, at Egypt’s request, an Arab Ministerial Contact Group was created to promote a resolution to the war in Ukraine (which had significant potential economic repercussions for member states). In the following month the Arab League’s Secretary-General and the ministers responsible for foreign affairs from Algeria, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan and Sudan met their Ukrainian and Russian counterparts in Moscow, Russian Federation, to discuss means of achieving a ceasefire in the conflict.</p>
               <p>In June 2023 an extraordinary meeting of the League’s Council strongly condemned the recent provocative burning of a copy of the Qur'an (Islamic holy book) in Stockholm, Sweden, at the commencement of the Eid al-Adha holiday. The Council called on the international community to criminalize such acts.</p>
               <p>The third ministerial session of an Arab-Japanese Political Dialogue was held in September 2023, at the League’s headquarters, and the 10th Ministerial Conference of a China-Arab States Cooperation Forum was to be organized in 2024.</p>
               <p-group>
                    <heading usage="mena">Latin America</heading>
                    <p usage="mena">The first summit of heads of state and of government of the South American-Arab Countries (ASPA) was convened in May 2005, in Brasília, Brazil, and a second ASPA summit was organized in March 2009, in Doha. The third ASPA summit was convened in Lima, Peru, in October 2012, and ASPA IV took place in Riyadh in November 2015. ASPA V, initially scheduled to have been hosted by Venezuela during 2018, was postponed. ASPA also meets at the level of ministers responsible for foreign affairs (every two years, on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly), senior officials (every six months), and in the format of a number of sectoral committees, covering co-operation in the following areas: cultural, economic, environmental, scientific and technological, and social. An Arab-South American Library is being developed in Algiers, Algeria, under the ASPA co-operation initiative. In January 2013 the first ASPA ministerial meeting on energy, held in Abu Dhabi, adopted the Abu Dhabi Declaration on enhanced co-operation. The fourth biennial Brazil-Arab Countries Economic Forum was convened in São Paulo, Brazil, in July 2022.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>European Union</heading>
                    <p>A Liaison Office with the European Commission was established in 2009. In January 2015 the Arab League Secretary-General signed an MOU with the High Representative of the EU for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy in order to strengthen relations and enhance co-operation. A Strategic Dialogue was launched in November to facilitate and promote exchanges on political and security issues. The inaugural Arab League-EU leaders’ summit, convened in February 2019, in Sharm el-Sheikh, issued a joint declaration on future Euro-Arab co-operation. Regular meetings of ministers responsible for foreign affairs of the Arab League and EU are held.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Sub-Saharan Africa</heading>
                    <p usage="edio mena">In October 2010 the Arab League and the AU jointly organized an Africa-Arab summit, held in Sirte, the second such meeting since that convened in 1977. Leaders attending the summit agreed to establish a joint Africa-Arab Fund for Disaster Response. The third summit was held in Kuwait, in November 2013, and the fourth was hosted by Equatorial Guinea, in November 2016, on the theme `Together for a Sustainable Economic Development’.</p>
                    <p>In February 2021 the ninth meeting of Arab-African Cooperation—with participation by delegations of senior officials led by the Arab League Secretary-General and the Chairperson of the African Union Commission—agreed to strengthen collaboration on political, social, economic, developmental and cultural matters. A planned fifth Arab League-AU summit, which was to have been held in November 2023, in Riyadh, was postponed in view of the conflict in Gaza.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading usage="mena">United Nations</heading>
                    <p usage="mena">In September 2016 the Secretaries-General of the Arab League and the UN signed an agreement governing the development of future co-operation between the two organizations. A UN Liaison Office was opened in Cairo in June 2019. In March 2022 the UAE, in its role as holder of the Presidency of the UN Security Council in that month, convened a meeting attended by the Arab League’s Secretary-General that addressed League-UN co-operation.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="LAS.IO.197" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Finance</heading>
          <p id="LAS.IO.146">The Arab League budgets around US&#160;$60m. annually to fund its secretariat, including a small allocation to the Arab Fund for Technical Assistance in African States. Member states’ contributions are determined by a scale of assessments, under which Kuwait and Saudi Arabia each contribute 14% to the total budget (the largest national contributions).</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="LAS.IO.192" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Specialized Agencies</heading>
          <p id="LAS.IO.45">All member states of the Arab League are also members of the Specialized Agencies, which constitute an integral part of the Arab League. </p>
          <!--~ Arab Network of Nuclear Regulators (ANNuR) -->
          <org-list>
               <org-entry id="LAS.IO.46" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Arab Academy for Science, Technology and Maritime Transport (AASTMT)</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>POB 1029, Alexandria, Egypt</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(3) 5622366</telephone>
                         <fax>(3) 5610950</fax>
                         <internet>www.aast.edu</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1975 as Arab Maritime Transport Academy</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">provides specialized training in marine transport, engineering, technology and management</content-note>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Pres.</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <title>Prof. Dr</title>
                                   <forename>Ismail Abdel</forename>
                                   <surname>Ghafar Ismail Farag</surname>
                              </person-name>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">
          publs 
          <publ-name>International Maritime Transport and Logistics Journal</publ-name>
           (annually), 
          <publ-name>Maritime Research and Technology Bulletin</publ-name>
           (2 a year)
        </content-note>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="LAS.IO.47" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Arab Administrative Development Organization (ARADO)</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>
              2
              <sc>a</sc>
               El-Hegaz St, POB 2692 al-Horreia, Heliopolis, Cairo, Egypt
            </verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 22581144</telephone>
                         <fax>(2) 22580077</fax>
                         <email>arado@arado.org</email>
                         <internet>www.arado.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1961 (as the Arab Organization of Administrative Sciences), became operational in 1969</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">undertakes administration devt, training, consultancy, research and studies, information, documentation</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">promotes Arab and international co-operation in administrative sciences</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">incl. the Arab Network of Administrative Information</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">maintains an extensive digital library</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">in Sept. 2021 organized the First Arab Forum on Sovereign Sukuk and their Role in the Development of Arab Societies (addressing Shari`a-compliant Islamic financial mechanisms)</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">co-organized in June 2022 the First Arab Conference on Intellectual Property Rights</content-note>
                    <stats>mems: 22 states</stats>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Gen. Dir</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <title>Prof.</title>
                                   <forename>Nasser</forename>
                                   <surname>Ali al-Qahtani</surname>
                              </person-name>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">
          publs 
          <publ-name>Arab Journal of Administration</publ-name>
           (quarterly), research series, training manuals
        </content-note>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="LAS.IO.48" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <data-protection date-added="03.02.2010" ticked-box="Y" />
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Arab Atomic Energy Agency (AAEA)</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>7 rue de l’Assistance, Cité El Khadhra, 1003 Tunis, Tunisia</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(71) 808400</telephone>
                         <fax>(71) 808450</fax>
                         <email>aaea@aaea.org.tn</email>
                         <internet>www.aaea.org.tn</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1988</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">helped to organize the 15th Arab Conf. on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy in Dec. 2021, in Aswan, Egypt</content-note>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <title>Prof.</title>
                                   <forename>Salem</forename>
                                   <surname>Hamdi</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Tunisia</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">publs books and reports in the field of nuclear sciences and their applications in industry, biology, medicine, agriculture, food irradiation and seawater desalination</content-note>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="LAS.IO.50" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Arab Center for the Studies of Arid Zones and Dry Lands (ACSAD)</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>Alsaboura, next to Remote Sensing Bldg, Gate 8, Damascus, Syria</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(11) 3944171</telephone>
                         <fax>(11) 3944170</fax>
                         <email>email@acsad.org</email>
                         <internet>www.acsad.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1968</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">conducts regional research and devt programmes related to land and water uses, plant and animal resources, agro-meteoro­logy, and socioeconomic stud­ies of arid zones</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">maintains 13 research stations</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">holds confs and training courses and encourages the exchange of information by Arab scientists</content-note>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <title>Dr</title>
                                   <forename>Nasr Edin</forename>
                                   <surname>Obaid</surname>
                              </person-name>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="LAS.IO.500" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (AFESD)</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>POB 21923, Safat, 13080 Kuwait</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">24959000</telephone>
                         <fax>24959390</fax>
                         <email>hq@arabfund.org</email>
                         <internet>www.arabfund.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1968, commenced operations in 1974</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">contributes to financing projects in support of economic and social devt in Arab states, including providing loans and guarantees for private sector projects</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">provides expertise and technical assistance</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">organizes regional confs, seminars and studies</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">administers a Special Account to support small and medium-sized enterprises, an Arab Fund Fellowships Programme, and an Urgent Programme to Support the Palestinian People</content-note>
                    <stats>auth. cap. 4,000m. Kuwaiti dinars</stats>
                    <stats>mems: 22 states (Syrian Arab Rep. suspended)</stats>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Bader M.</forename>
                                   <surname>al-Asaad</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Kuwait</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">
          publs 
          <publ-name>Annual Report</publ-name>
          , 
          <publ-name>Joint Economic Report</publ-name>
           (annually)
        </content-note>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="LAS.IO.51" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Arab Industrial Development, Standardization and Mining Organization</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>AIDSMO</abbr>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>rue France, Zanagat al-Khatawat, POB 8019, Rabat, Morocco</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(37) 274500</telephone>
                         <fax>(37) 772188</fax>
                         <email>aidsmo@aidsmo.org</email>
                         <internet>www.aidsmo.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1990 by merger of Arab In­dustrial Development Organization, Arab Organization for Mineral Resources and Arab Organization for Standardization and Metrology</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">comprises a 13-mem. Executive Council, a High Consultative Committee of Standardization, a High Committee of Mineral Resources and a Co-ordination Committee for Arab Industrial Research Centres</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">a Council of ministers of mem. states responsible for industry meets every 2 years</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">in April 2017 AIDSMO convened the inaugural meeting of a working team tasked with linking academia with industry in the Arab region</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">in April 2021 it established a platform that aimed to support mem. states during the COVID-19 pandemic by facilitating offers of and requests for Arab industrial products, incl. medical and health supplies</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">promotes investment in green industries in the Arab world</content-note>
                    <stats>mems: 21 Arab countries</stats>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Adel</forename>
                                   <surname>al-Saqer</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Kuwait</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">
          publs 
          <publ-name>Arab Industrial Development</publ-name>
           (monthly and quarterly newsletters)
        </content-note>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="LAS.IO.57" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <!--rc 27.02.2024 cannot confirm total assets-->
                    <!--GS 19.07.2017 reply says to delete the member stats but some sources on the web still confirm that the member stats remain as is. Hence, have retained them-->
                    <data-protection date-added="13.06.2017" ticked-box="Y" />
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Arab Investment and Export Credit Guarantee Corporation</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>POB 23568, Safat 13096, Kuwait</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">24959555</telephone>
                         <fax>24959596</fax>
                         <email>operations@dhaman.net</email>
                         <internet>www.dhaman.net</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1974</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">insures Arab investors for non-commercial risks, and export cred­its for commercial and non-commercial risks</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">undertakes research and other activities to promote inter-Arab trade and investment</content-note>
                    <stats>mems: 21 Arab countries and 4 multilateral Arab financial institutions</stats>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Chair.</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <title>Dr</title>
                                   <forename>Naif bin Abdul</forename>
                                   <surname>Rahman al-Shammari</surname>
                              </person-name>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Abdullah A.</forename>
                                   <surname>al-Sabeeh</surname>
                              </person-name>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">
          publs 
          <publ-name>News Bulletin</publ-name>
           (quarterly), 
          <publ-name>Arab Investment Climate Report</publ-name>
           (annually)
        </content-note>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="LAS.IO.52" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Arab Labour Organization</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>POB 814, Cairo, Egypt</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 3362721</telephone>
                         <fax>(2) 3484902</fax>
                         <email>alo@alolabor.org</email>
                         <internet>alolabor.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1965</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">promotes co-operation between mem. states in labour issues, including the unification of labour legislation and general conditions of work wherever possible</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">conducts research, technical assistance and training</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">the org. has a tripartite structure: govts, employers and workers</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">50th Arab Labour Conf.: May 2024, Baghdad</content-note>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Fayez Ali</forename>
                                   <surname>al-Mutairi</surname>
                              </person-name>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">publs research reports, bulletins and studies concerned with economic and social devt issues in the Arab world</content-note>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="LAS.IO.53" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Arab League Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization (ALECSO)</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>ave Mohamed V, POB 1120, Tunis, Tunisia</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(70) 013-900</telephone>
                         <email>alecso@alecso.org.tn</email>
                         <internet>www.alecso.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1970 to promote and co-ordinate educational, cultural and scientific activities in the Arab region</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">has depts of Education; Culture; Science and Scientific Research Administration; and Information and Communication Management</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">regional units: Arab Centre for Arabization, Translation, Authorship, and Publication—Damascus, Syria</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">Institute of Arab Manuscripts—Cairo, Egypt</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">Institute of Arab Research and Stud­ies—Cairo</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">Khartoum International Institute for Arabic Language—Khartoum, Sudan</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">and the Arabization Co-ordination Bureau—Rabat, Morocco</content-note>
                    <stats>mems: 22 states</stats>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <title>Prof. Dr</title>
                                   <forename>Mohamed</forename>
                                   <surname>Ould Amar</surname>
                              </person-name>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">
          publs 
          <publ-name>Arab Journal of Culture</publ-name>
           (2 a year), 
          <publ-name>Arab Journal of Education</publ-name>
           (2 a year), 
          <publ-name>Arab Journal of Science and Information</publ-name>
           (2 a year)
        </content-note>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="LAS.IO.501" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Arab Monetary Fund (AMF)</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>Arab Monetary Fund Bldg, Corniche Rd, POB 2818, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 6171400</telephone>
                         <email>support@amf.org.ae</email>
                         <internet>www.amf.org.ae</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1976</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">extends loans to finance balance of payments deficits in mem. states</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">issues guarantees to strengthen the borrowing capacities of mems</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">provides economic and monetary co-operation among mems</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">administers a Structural Adjustment Facility, an Oil Facility, and a Short Term Liquidity Facility</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">provides technical assistance and training events through the Economic Policy Institute</content-note>
                    <stats>auth. cap. 6,000m. Arab Accounting Dinars</stats>
                    <stats>mems: 22 states</stats>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Dir-Gen. and Chair. of Bd of Exec. Dirs</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Fahd bin Muhammad</forename>
                                   <surname>al-Turki</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Saudi Arabia</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">
          publs 
          <publ-name>Annual Report</publ-name>
          , 
          <publ-name>Arab Countries: Economic Indicators</publ-name>
           (annually), 
          <publ-name> Arab Economic Outlook</publ-name>
           (2 a year), 
          <publ-name>Joint Arab Economic Report</publ-name>
           (annually)
        </content-note>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="LAS.IO.54" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Arab Organization for Agricultural Development (AOAD)</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>7 al-Amarat St, POB 474, Khartoum 11111, Sudan</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(1) 83472176</telephone>
                         <email>info@aoad.org</email>
                         <internet>www.aoad.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1970</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">began operations in 1972 to contribute to co-operation in agri­cultural activities, and in the devt of natural and human resources for agriculture</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">compiles data, conducts studies, training and food security pro­grammes</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">includes Information and Documentation Centre, Arab Centre for Studies and Projects, and Arab Institute of Forestry and Biodiversity</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">in Sept. 2017 concluded a co-operation framework with the Islamic Organization for Food Security</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">in July 2021 signed a co-operation framework agreement with FAO, providing for the implementation of jt projects incl. drafting a roadmap on the devt of sustainable agriculture and food chains, and undertaking a study of the socioeconomic impacts of the red palm weevil (an agricultural pest)</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">a Strategy for Sustainable Arab Agricultural Development was being implemented during 2020-30, alongside an Arab Program for Sustaining Food Security that aimed to expand output of basic food commodities by a minimum of 30% by 2030</content-note>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <title>Prof.</title>
                                   <forename>Ibrahim Adam</forename>
                                   <surname>el-Dukhiri</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Oman</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">
          publs 
          <publ-name>Agricultural Statistics Yearbook</publ-name>
          , 
          <publ-name>Annual Report on Sustainable Rural Development</publ-name>
          , 
          <publ-name>Annual Report on Food Security Conditions</publ-name>
          , 
          <publ-name>Fisheries Statistics Yearbook</publ-name>
          , other research journals
        </content-note>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="LAS.IO.55" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Arab Satellite Communications Organization (ARABSAT)</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>POB 1038, Diplomatic Quarter, Riyadh 11431, Saudi Arabia</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(11) 482-0000</telephone>
                         <email>info@Arabsat.com</email>
                         <internet>www.arabsat.com</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1976</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">regional satellite tele­communications org. pro­viding broadcast, telecommunications and broadband services to mems and private users</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">operates 7 satellites, which cover Arab, European, Central Asian and northern African countries</content-note>
                    <stats>mems: 21 states</stats>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Pres. and CEO</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Alhamedi</forename>
                                   <surname>Alanezi</surname>
                              </person-name>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
               <!--~ https://www.digitaltveurope.com/2021/09/07/change-of-management-at-arabsat/-->
               <org-entry id="LAS.IO.56" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <!--GS 13.09.2017 Could not confirm Arab broadcasters publ.-->
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Arab States Broadcasting Union (ASBU)</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>POB 250, 1080 Tunis Cedex</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>rue 8840, Centre Urbain Nord, Tunisia</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(71) 849000</telephone>
                         <fax>(71) 843054</fax>
                         <email>asbu@asbu.net</email>
                         <internet>www.asbu.net</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1969</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to promote and study broadcasting, and to exchange expertise and technical co-operation in broadcasting</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">conducts training and audience research</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">operates a Multimedia Exchange Network over Satellite (MENOS+) network and digital TV services, backed up by high-security ASBU Cloud servers</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">established a training academy in 2016, in Tunis</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">organizes the biennial Arab Festival for Radio and Television, and an Arab Song Festival</content-note>
                    <stats>32 active mem. radio and television orgs, 2 participating mem., 12 assoc. mems</stats>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Abdelrahim</forename>
                                   <surname>Suleiman</surname>
                              </person-name>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">
          publs 
          <publ-name>Arab Broadcasters</publ-name>
           (quarterly), 
          <publ-name>Arab Radio Review</publ-name>
           (quarterly)
        </content-note>
               </org-entry>
               <!--Arab Corporation for Broadcasting-->
          </org-list>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-ARABLEAGUE.5" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Associated Body</heading>
          <org-list>
               <org-entry id="CAEU.IO" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Council of Arab Economic Unity</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>1113 Corniche el-Nil, 4th Floor, POB 1 Mohammed Fareed, 11518 Cairo, Egypt</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 5755321</telephone>
                         <fax>(2) 5754090</fax>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1957 by the Economic and Social Council of the Arab League</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">tasked with administering the 1962 Arab Economic Unity Agreement</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">inaugural meeting held in 1964</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to co-ordinate measures leading to a customs union subject to a unified administration; conduct market and commodity studies; assist with the unification of statistical termin­ology and methods of data collection; conduct studies for the formation of new joint Arab companies and federations; and to formulate specific programmes for agricultural and industrial co-ordination and for improving road and railway networks</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">representatives of mem. states—usually ministers responsible for economy, finance and trade—meet twice a year; meetings are chaired by the representative of each country for one year on a rotational basis</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">the Council secretariat is entrusted with the implementation of the Council's decisions and with proposing work plans, including efforts to encourage participation by mem. states parties to the Arab Economic Unity Agreement; the secretariat also compiles statistics, conducts research and publishes studies on Arab economic problems and on the effects of major world economic trends</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">has permanent committees on Customs issues; Monetary and finance; Economic; Permanent representatives; and Follow-up</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">affiliated Arab unions have been established under the auspices of the Council</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">in Nov. 2020 endorsed a Trade Fair for the Arab Countries format, to be implemented as a hybrid of traditional and virtual activities</content-note>
                    <stats>mems: Egypt, Jordan, Libya, Mauritania, Palestine, Somalia, Sudan, Yemen</stats>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Mohamedi</forename>
                                   <surname>Ahmed al-Ny</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Mauritania</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
               <!--~ https://aisusteel.org/en/archives/18673 al-Ny - 5 year tenure from vi.21-->
          </org-list>
          <p>
      The 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="LAS.IO.49">Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa,</xr>
       established in 1973 by the Arab League member states, extends loans and grants to sub-Saharan African countries to finance development initiatives.
    </p>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="WB02057.IO.TXT.199" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="edio">
          <heading>The Pact of the League of Arab States</heading>
          <heading-note>22 March 1945</heading-note>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.200">
               <i>Article 1</i>
      . The League of Arab States shall be composed of the: independent Arab States that have signed this Pact.
    </p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.149">Every independent Arab state shall have the right to adhere to the League. If it desires to do so, it shall submit a request which will be deposited with the Permanent Secretariat-General and submitted to the Council at the first meeting held after submission of the request.</p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.201">
               <i>Article 2</i>
      . The League has as its purpose the strengthening of the relations between the member states; the co-ordination of their policies in order to achieve co-operation between them and to safeguard their independence and sovereignty; and a general concern with the affairs and interests of the Arab countries. It has also as its purpose the close co-operation of the member states, with due regard to the organization and circumstances of each state, on the following matters:
    </p>
          <gen-list>
               <item>
        (
        <i>a</i>
        ) Economic and financial affairs, including trade, customs, currency, and questions of agriculture and industry
      </item>
               <item>
        (
        <i>b</i>
        ) Communications, including railways, roads, aviation, navigation, telegraphs and posts
      </item>
               <item>
        (
        <i>c</i>
        ) Cultural affairs
      </item>
               <item>
        (
        <i>d</i>
        ) Nationality, passports, visas, execution of judgments, and extradition of criminals
      </item>
               <item>
        (
        <i>e</i>
        ) Social affairs
      </item>
               <item>
        (
        <i>f</i>
        ) Health problems
      </item>
          </gen-list>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.202">
               <i>Article 3</i>
      . The League shall possess a Council composed of the representatives of the member states of the League; each state shall have a single vote, irrespective of the number of its representatives.
    </p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.156">It shall be the task of the Council to achieve the realization of the objectives of the League and to supervise the execution of agreements which the member states have concluded on the questions enumerated in the preceding article, or on any other questions.</p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.157">It likewise shall be the Council's task to decide upon the means by which the League is to co-operate with the international bodies to be created in the future in order to guarantee security and peace and regulate economic and social relations.</p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.203">
               <i>Article 4</i>
      . For each of the questions listed in Article 2 there shall be set up a special committee in which the member states of the League shall be represented. These committees shall be charged with the task of laying down the principles and extent of co-operation. Such principles shall be formulated as draft agreements, to be presented to the Council for examination preparatory to their submission to the aforesaid states.
    </p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.158">Representatives of the other Arab countries may take part in the work of the aforesaid committees. The Council shall determine the conditions under which these representatives may be per­mitted to participate and the rules governing such representation.</p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.204">
               <i>Article 5</i>
      . Any resort to force in order to resolve disputes arising between two or more member states of the League is prohibited. If there should rise among them a difference which does not concern a state's independence, sovereignty, or territorial integ­rity, and if the parties to the dispute have recourse to the Council for the settlement of this difference, the decision of the Council shall then be enforceable and obligatory.
    </p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.159">In such a case, the states between whom the difference has arisen shall not participate in the deliberations and decisions of the Council.</p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.160">The Council shall mediate in all differences which threaten to lead to war between two member states, or a member state and a third state, with a view to bringing about their reconciliation.</p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.161">Decisions of arbitration and mediation shall be taken by majority vote.</p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.205">
               <i>Article 6</i>
      . In case of aggression or threat of aggression by one state against a member state, the state which has been attacked or threatened with aggression may demand the immediate convocation of the Council.
    </p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.162">The Council shall by unanimous decision determine the measures necessary to repulse the aggression. If the aggressor is a member state, its vote shall not be counted in determining unanimity.</p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.163">If, as a result of the attack, the government of the state attacked finds itself unable to communicate with the Council, that state's representative in the Council shall have the right to request the convocation of the Council for the purpose indicated in the foregoing paragraph. In the event that this representative is unable to commun­icate with the Council, any member state of the League shall have the right to request the convocation of the Council.</p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.206">
               <i>Article 7</i>
      . Unanimous decisions of the Council shall be binding upon all member states of the League; majority decisions shall be binding only upon those states that have accepted them.
    </p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.164">In either case the decisions of the Council shall be enforced in each member state according to its respective basic laws.</p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.207">
               <i>Article 8</i>
      . Each member state shall respect the systems of government established in the other member states and regard them as exclusive concerns of those states. Each shall pledge to abstain from any action calculated to change established systems of government.
    </p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.208">
               <i>Article 9</i>
      . States of the League which desire to establish closer co-operation and stronger bonds than are provided by this Pact may conclude agreements to that end.
    </p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.165">Treaties and agreements already concluded or to be concluded in the future between a member state and another state shall not be binding or restrictive upon other members.</p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.209">
               <i>Article 10</i>
      . The permanent seat of the League of Arab States is established in Cairo. The Council may, however, assemble at any other place it may designate.
    </p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.210">
               <i>Article 11</i>
      . The Council of the League shall convene in ordinary session twice a year, in March and in September. It shall convene in extraordinary session upon the request of two member states of the League whenever the need arises.
    </p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.211">
               <i>Article 12</i>
      . The League shall have a permanent Secretariat-General which shall consist of a Secretary-General, Assistant Secretaries, and an appropriate number of officials.
    </p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.166">The Council of the League shall appoint the Secretary-General by a majority of two-thirds of the states of the League. The Secretary-General, with the approval of the Council, shall appoint the Assistant Secretaries and the principal officials of the League.</p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.167">The Council of the League shall establish an administrative regulation for the functions of the Secretariat-General and matters relating to the Staff.</p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.168">The Secretary-General shall have the rank of Ambassador and the Assistant Secretaries that of Ministers Plenipotentiary.</p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.212">
               <i>Article 13</i>
      . The Secretary-General shall prepare the draft of the budget of the League and shall submit it to the Council for approval before the beginning of each fiscal year.
    </p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.169">The Council shall fix the share of the expenses to be borne by each state of the League. This share may be reconsidered if necessary.</p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.213">
               <i>Article 14</i>
      . (confers diplomatic immunity on officials).
    </p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.214">
               <i>Article 15</i>
      . The first meeting of the Council shall be convened at the invitation of the head of the Egyptian Government. Thereafter it shall be convened at the invitation of the Secretary-General.
    </p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.170">The representatives of the member states of the League shall alternately assume the presidency of the Council at each of its ordinary sessions.</p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.215">
               <i>Article 16</i>
      . Except in cases specifically indicated in this Pact, a majority vote of the Council shall be sufficient to make enforceable decisions on the following matters:
    </p>
          <gen-list>
               <item>
        (
        <i>a</i>
        ) Matters relating to personnel
      </item>
               <item>
        (
        <i>b</i>
        ) Adoption of the budget of the League
      </item>
               <item>
        (
        <i>c</i>
        ) Establishment of the administrative regulations for the Council, the Committees, and the Secretariat-General
      </item>
               <item>
        (
        <i>d</i>
        ) Decisions to adjourn the sessions
      </item>
          </gen-list>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.216">
               <i>Article 17</i>
      . Each member state of the League shall deposit with the Secretariat-General one copy of every treaty or agreement concluded or to be concluded in the future between itself and another member state of the League or a third state.
    </p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.217">
               <i>Article 18</i>
      . (deals with withdrawal).
    </p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.218">
               <i>Article 19</i>
      . (deals with amendment).
    </p>
          <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.219">
               <i>Article 20</i>
      . (deals with ratification).
    </p>
          <int-org-section id="WB02057.IO.TXT.220" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>ANNEX REGARDING PALESTINE</heading>
               <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.175">Since the termination of the last great war, the rule of the Ottoman Empire over the Arab countries, among them Palestine, which has become detached from that Empire, has come to an end. She has come to be autonomous, not subordinate to any other state.</p>
               <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.176">The Treaty of Lausanne proclaimed that her future was to be settled by the parties concerned.</p>
               <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.177">However, even though she was as yet unable to control her own affairs, the Covenant of the League (of Nations) in 1919 made provision for a regime based upon recognition of her independence.</p>
               <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.178">Her international existence and independence in the legal sense cannot, therefore, be questioned, any more than could the independence of the Arab countries.</p>
               <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.179">Although the outward manifestations of this independence have remained obscured for reasons beyond her control, this should not be allowed to interfere with her participation in the work of the Council of the League.</p>
               <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.180">The states signatory to the Pact of the Arab League are therefore of the opinion that, considering the special circumstances of Palestine and until that country can effectively exercise its inde­pendence, the Council of the League should take charge of the selection of an Arab representative from Palestine to take part in its work.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="WB02057.IO.TXT.221" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Annex regarding Co-operation with Countries which are not Members of the Council</heading>
               <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.181">Whereas the member states of the League will have to deal in the Council as well as in the committees with matters which will benefit and affect the Arab world at large;</p>
               <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.182">And whereas the Council has to take into account the aspirations of the Arab countries which are not members of the Council and has to work toward their realization;</p>
               <p id="WB02057.IO.TXT.183">Now therefore, it particularly behoves the states signatory to the Pact of the Arab League to enjoin the Council of the League, when considering the admission of those countries to participation in the committees referred to in the Pact, that it should do its utmost to co-operate with them, and furthermore, that it should spare no effort to learn their needs and understand their aspirations and hopes; and that it should work thenceforth for their best interests and the safeguarding of the future with all the political means at its disposal.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <!--20.v.24: 15,251 words-->
</int-org-entry>