<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="MERCOSUR.IO" id-root="mercosur.io" iso="mercosur.io" original-filename="wb02069.txt" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio sacac"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>Southern Common Market</org-entry-name>
               <abbr>MERCOSUR/MERCOSUL</abbr>
          </int-org-name-group>
          <int-org-name-group type="ALT">
               <org-entry-name>Mercado Común del Sur/Mercado Comum do Sul</org-entry-name>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">MAJOR NON-UN ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="sacac">REGIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE">Southern Common Market</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>Edif. Mercosur, Luis Piera 1992, 1°, 11200 Monte­video, Uruguay</verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <telephone alsofax="N"> 2412 9024</telephone>
               <fax>2418 0557</fax>
               <email>secretaria@mercosur.org.uy</email>
               <internet>www.mercosur.int</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p id="MERCOSUR.IO.7">MERCOSUR was established in March 1991 by Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay. It aims to achieve the economic integration of member states by means of a free flow of goods and services, the establishment of a common external tariff, the adoption of common commercial policy, and the co-ordination of macroeconomic and sectoral policies. The Ouro Preto Protocol, which was signed in December 1994, conferred on MERCOSUR the status of an international legal entity.</p>
          <int-org-section id="MERCOSUR.IO.29" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>
        Members
        <endnoteref idref="MERCOSUR.IO.111" ref-symbol="*" />
               </heading>
               <table-block-simple id="MERCOSUR.IO.30" type="OTHER">
                    <table pgwide="NO" style="WITHOUT-RULES">
                         <tgroup cols="5">
                              <colspec colwidth="4.4cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="3.3cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="4.3cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="4cm" />
                              <colspec align="left" char="" charoff="50" colname="COLSPEC1" colwidth="4.00cm" />
                              <tbody>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Argentina</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Brazil</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Paraguay</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Uruguay</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                  
                  Venezuela
                </entry>
                                   </row>
                              </tbody>
                         </tgroup>
                    </table>
                    <endnote id="MERCOSUR.IO.111" ref-symbol="*">Venezuela’s membership was temporarily suspended in December 2016, and indefinitely from August 2017, pending the restoration of democratic order. In July 2015 Bolivia signed a protocol of accession to become—pending ratification by each member’s legislature—a full participant in MERCOSUR. The outstanding ratification process (that of Brazil) was concluded in December 2023. Its official status at early 2024 was being in the final stage of accession</endnote>
               </table-block-simple>
               <p id="MERCOSUR.IO.12">Note: Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Guyana, Peru and Suriname are associate members. Mexico and New Zealand have observer status. </p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="MERCOSUR.IO.31" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <heading-note>April 2024</heading-note>
          <int-org-section id="MERCOSUR.01" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Summit</heading>
               <p>A summit meeting of heads of state of MERCOSUR member and associated states is convened at least once a year, hosted by the incumbent holder of the group’s rotating six-month presidency. The 63rd summit meeting was held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in December 2023. Paraguay assumed the MERCOSUR presidency at that time.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="MERCOSUR.IO.32" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Common Market Council</heading>
               <p>The Consejo del Mercado Común (CMC), comprising member state’s ministers responsible for foreign affairs and for the economy, is MERCOSUR’s highest decision-making body, and is responsible for providing political leadership to advance the integration process and to ensure compliance with the guiding objectives of the grouping’s founding Treaty of Asunción. Member states are bound by decisions of the CMC, which are made with the presence of all member states and by consensus. The Council meets as often as required, and normally once a year with member countries’ heads of state. Subsidiary bodies of the CMC include the Commission of Permanent Representatives of MERCOSUR, sectoral ministerial meetings, and thematic high level groups.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="MERCOSUR.IO.33" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Common Market Group</heading>
               <p>The Common Market Group (Grupo Mercado Común)—comprising five regular members and five alternate members per member state, who must include representatives of their Ministries of Foreign Affairs and the Economy, and of their Central Banks—is the exec­utive body of MERCOSUR and is responsible for implementing concrete measures to further the integration process. The Group meets in ordinary and extraordinary sessions. Its decisions are binding.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="MERCOSUR.IO.34" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Trade Commission</heading>
               <p>The Trade Commission (Comisión de Comercio del MERCOSUR) oversees common trade policy instruments, and is responsible for monitoring trade with third countries, the operation of the common external tariff, and intra-MERCOSUR trade. The Commission meets once a month or otherwise at the request of the Common Market Group.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="MERCOSUR.IO.36.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Permanent Review Court</heading>
               <p>Established in accordance with the Protocol of Olivos, which entered into force on 1 January 2004, and a subsequent amending Protocol, the Court (the Tribunal Permanente de Revisión) guarantees the correct interpretation and application of the MERCOSUR integration process, acts as a court of appeal in disputes between member states, and offers advisory opinions. In December 2023 the 63rd summit approved a budget of US&#8201;$580,432 for the Court in 2024.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="MERCOSUR.IO.36" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Consultative Economic and Social Forum</heading>
               <p id="MERCOSUR.IO.17">The Consultative Economic and Social Forum (Foro Consultivo Económico-Social) comprises representatives from the business community and trade unions in the member countries and has a consultative role in relation to MERCOSUR.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="MERCOSUR.IO.53.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Parliament</heading>
               <org-list>
                    <org-entry id="MERCOSUR.IO.56.3" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Parlamento del MERCOSUR (PARLASUR)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Pablo de María 827, 11200 Monte­video, Uruguay</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">2410 9797</telephone>
                              <internet>www.parlamentomercosur.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2005, as successor to the Joint Parliamentary Commission (Comisión Parlamentaria Conjunta)</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">inaugural session held in May 2007</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to facilitate implementation of MERCOSUR decisions and regional co-operation</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">has 12 subsidiary commissions covering a broad thematic spectrum</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">each mem. holds 18 seats</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">concluded in Aug. 2014 a Framework Cooperation Arrangement with the International Criminal Court</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Dec. 2020 convened a public hearing on the rights of Indigenous peoples in the region</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">on 8 Jan. 2023, calling for respect for democracy and for the rule of law, PARLASUR condemned the co-ordinated mass attack that was perpetrated at that time against public buildings in Brazil’s federal capital Brasília by supporters of former Pres. Jair Bolsonaro</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a delegation of MERCOSUR parliamentarians undertook a formal visit to Europe in June to discuss the draft EU-MERCOSUR trade agreement</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">PARLASUR’s Observatory of Democracy sends electoral observation missions to monitor elections in mem. states</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Alfredo Horacio</forename>
                                        <surname> Olmedo</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Argentina</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <!--~ seats eventually to be allocated proportional to each country s popn? agreement Oct 2010; direct elections - history of -->
               </org-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="MERCOSUR.IO.37" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Secretariat</heading>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="MERCOSUR.IO.18" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Director</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Bernardino Hugo</forename>
                                        <surname>Saguier Caballero</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Paraguay</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
                    <!--term ends on 31.xii.24-->
               </dir-list>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="MERCOSUR.IO.38" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Activities</heading>
          <int-org-section id="MERCOSUR.IO.999" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Political Integration</heading>
               <p usage="edio sacac">In June 2012 Paraguay was suspended from participation in a regular meeting of heads of state, following the impeachment of that country’s President, Fernando Lugo. The remaining members of MERCOSUR insisted that the removal of Lugo was a contravention of commitments under the 1998 Ushuaia Protocol on the Democratic Commitment in the Southern Common Market, which required that democratic, accountable institutions should be in place in member states, as a fundamental condition of the advancement of the integration process. During the suspension from the grouping of Paraguay—whose congress had vetoed the membership of Venezuela—the heads of state announced that Venezuela would be admitted as a full member of MERCOSUR with effect from 31 July 2012. In July 2013, MERCOSUR heads of state agreed that Paraguay should be permitted to reintegrate into the grouping following the inauguration on 15 August of a new elected President. In December, following diplomatic negotiations, both houses of the Paraguay legislature approved Venezuela’s adhesion protocol, enabling Paraguay to resume active membership of the grouping.</p>
               <p usage="edio sacac">In July 2016 Argentina, Brazil and (most strongly) Paraguay expressed their opposition to the anticipated assumption by Venezuela of MERCOSUR’s rotating presidency on grounds including the authoritarian nature of the Venezuelan regime, its detention of political prisoners, and its overall failure to meet MERCOSUR membership obligations. A summit meeting scheduled for the end of July was cancelled, and Uruguay—holder of the preceding presidency—unilaterally devolved the role to Venezuela outside the framework of the Common Market Council, eschewing established formal procedure. In late August a meeting of national co-ordinators (excluding Venezuela) declared an emergency period until the end of Venezuela’s disputed tenure of the presidency, and agreed an interim timetable of meetings for the grouping. In early December the ministers responsible for foreign affairs of Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay concluded that Venezuela had not met its membership obligations (including incorporating into national legislation numerous related economic, human rights and political obligations) and would therefore be temporarily suspended from the grouping. An extraordinary ministerial meeting was held in Buenos Aires (Argentina) in mid-December, which the Venezuelan foreign minister was not permitted to attend.</p>
               <p>In August 2017 MERCOSUR foreign ministers suspended Venezuela indefinitely from participation in the activities of the organization, pending the full restoration of democratic order. A statement was released in June 2018 by MERCOSUR heads of state that expressed concern over the deteriorating humanitarian situation in Venezuela and related migrant crisis. In January 2019 Argentina, Brazil and Paraguay stated support for a declaration by Juan Guaidó Márquez, the President of the Venezuelan National Constituent Assembly, that he had assumed the role of interim President of Venezuela. The Uruguayan Government, however, recognized the controversial second term of office of Nicolás Maduro, which had commenced in January 2019, following disputed elections held in May 2018. In July 2023, at the 62nd MERCOSUR summit, the Paraguayan and Uruguayan leaders demanded, but failed to achieve from the Argentine and Brazilian Presidents, a collective condemnation of the ban on holding public office that had been imposed in Venezuela on the opposition politician María Corina Machado Parisca.</p>
               <p>A decision made unilaterally by the Argentine authorities in January 2023 to impose a maintenance charge for use of the Argentine stretch of the 3,400-km Hidrovía Paraguay-Paraná—a strategic waterway that connects river ports in Bolivia, Paraguay, Brazil, Argentina and Uruguay with the Atlantic Ocean—prompted significant tension with the other MERCOSUR member states. In September, during a dispute over payment of the toll, the Argentine security forces temporarily seized a Paraguay-registered vessel that was transporting a significant cargo of fuel to Asunción, the Paraguayan capital. In response, Paraguay, Bolivia, Brazil and Uruguay collectively issued a statement that urged Argentina to restore free navigation on the route.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="MERCOSUR.IO.543" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Economic Integration</heading>
               <p>MERCOSUR's free trade zone entered into effect on 1 January 1995, with tariffs removed from 85% of intraregional trade. A regime of gradual removal of duties on a list of special products was agreed, while regimes governing trade in the automobile and sugar sectors remained to be negotiated. MERCOSUR's customs union also came into force at the start of 1995, comprising a common external tariff (CET) of 0%-20%. A list of exceptions from the CET was agreed; these products were to lose their special status and were to be subject to the general tariff system concerning foreign goods by 2006. In December 2012 heads of state agreed that Venezuela would implement the CET in four stages during 2013-16.</p>
               <p usage="sacac">In December 1995 MERCOSUR heads of state affirmed the consolidation of free trade as MERCOSUR's `permanent and most urgent goal'. To this end they agreed to prepare norms of application for MERCOSUR's customs code, accelerate paper procedures and increase the connections between national computerized systems. It was also agreed to increase co-operation in the areas of agriculture, industry, mining, energy, communications, transport and tourism, and finance.</p>
               <p usage="sacac">In December 1996 MERCOSUR heads of state approved agreements on harmonizing competition practices (by 2001), integrating educational opportunities for postgraduates and human resources training, standardizing trading safeguards applied against third country products (by 2001) and providing for intraregional cultural exchanges. An Accord on Subregional Air Services was signed at that time (including by the heads of state of Bolivia and Chile) to liberalize civil transport throughout the region. In December 1997 a separate Protocol was signed providing for the liberalization of trade in services and government purchases over a 10-year period. In December 1998 MERCOSUR heads of state agreed on measures to standardize human, animal and plant health and safety regulations throughout the grouping.</p>
               <p>At a summit convened in June 2003, in Asunción, heads of state of the then four member countries agreed to strengthen integration of the bloc and to harmon­ize all import tariffs by 2006, thus creating the basis for a single market. In August 2010 MERCOSUR heads of state, meeting in San Juan, Argentina, endorsed a new common customs code, incorporating agreements on the redistribution of external customs revenue and elimination of the double taxation on goods imported from outside the group. A common MERCOSUR vehicle licence plate was being introduced from 2016.</p>
               <p>
        A MERCOSUR Digital Agenda Group was established in December 2017 to address means of developing the regional digital economy, digital connectivity and infrastructure, digital security and governance, and digital skills. A new legal framework to facilitate electronic trade in goods and services within the grouping was agreed upon in December 2020, and signed at a ministerial meeting held in April 2021. The accord covered, 
        <i>inter alia,</i>
         consumer protection, personal data protection, cross-border transfers of information, recognition of electronic signatures and the non-imposition of tariffs.
      </p>
               <p>At a conference of 12 South American heads of state and of government convened at the end of May 2023, in Brasília, Brazil, that country’s President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva (who had taken office in January) proposed the creation of a common South American currency for commercial transactions.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="MERCOSUR.IO.SOCIAL.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Social Integration</heading>
               <p>In June 2005 MERCOSUR heads of state announced a US&#160;$100m. structural convergence fund (FOCEM) to support education, job creation and infrastructure projects in the poorest regions, in particular in Paraguay and Uruguay, in order to remove some economic dispar­ities within the grouping. In August 2015 heads of state agreed to renew FOCEM for a further 10 years. In April 2020, as an emergency measure, MERCOSUR committed an additional $16m. through FOCEM towards a multilateral project titled `Research, Education and Biotechnologies applied to Health’, to help combat the spread of COVID-19.</p>
               <p>MERCOSUR recognizes that gender inequality restricts equitable access to productive resources and economic opportunities. The Meeting of Ministers and High Authorities for Women of MERCOSUR (known by its Spanish acronym: RMAAM) provides a platform for political co-ordination on gender equality policies in member states.</p>
               <p>Regular `Mercociudades’ (citizens’ meetings) are convened within the MERCOSUR framework. A Mercociudades South-South cooperation programme was initiated in March 2023. A separate Specialized Meeting on Family Farming provides a framework for co-operation between rural organizations and family farmers in the region. Specialized Meetings are also held on co-operative associations, science and technology and statistics. A MERCOSUR Environmental Information System and Biotechology Platform are maintained. A Digital Library of MERCOSUR and South American Unity initiative was launched in June 2023. In December of that year a MERCOSUR Social Summit, with participation by representatives of civil society, was convened in Rio de Janeiro on the sidelines of the 63rd heads of state summit meeting.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="MERCOSUR.IO.39" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>External Relations</heading>
               <p>In June 1996 MERCOSUR heads of state approved the entry into MERCOSUR of Bolivia and Chile as associate members. An Economic Complementation Accord with Bolivia, which includes Bolivia in MERCOSUR's free trade zone, but not in the customs union, was signed in December 1995 and entered into force on 30 April 1997. Measures of the free trade agreement, which was signed in October 1996, were to be implemented during a transitional period commencing on 28 February 1997. Chile's Economic Complementation Accord with MERCOSUR entered into effect on 1 October 1996, with duties on most products to be removed over a 10-year period. Chile was also to remain outside the customs union. Procedures to incorporate Chile as a full member of MERCOSUR were suspended in 2000 following an announcement by the Chilean Government that it had initiated bilateral free trade discussions with the USA. In July 2008 MERCOSUR and Chile concluded a protocol on trade in services.</p>
               <p id="MERCOSUR.IO.26">
        A free trade agreement between MERCOSUR and the 
        <xr id="CAN.IO" pageref="N">Andean Community</xr>
         (incorporating up to 12 bilateral agreements) entered into force during 2005, and provided for tariffs on trade between the two groupings to be phased out over 14 years. MERCOSUR and the Andean Community pursued broader continental integration within the framework of 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO.GOVTANDPOLS.1">Union of South American Nations</xr>
         (UNASUR). In March 2019 the Presidents of Argentina, Brazil and Paraguay were among eight signatories to a declaration that established the Foro para el Progreso de América del Sur (Prosur) as an alternative regional mechanism for co-operation to UNASUR. Argentina and Brazil rejoined UNASUR in 2023.
      </p>
               <p usage="edio sacac">Peru became an associate member of MERCOSUR in December 2003, and Colombia and Ecuador were granted associate membership in December 2004. In July 2004 Mexico was invited to attend all meetings of the organization with a view to future accession to associate membership. In 2005 MERCOSUR and the Andean Community formulated a reciprocal association agreement, to extend associate membership to all member states of both groupings. In February 2010 ministers responsible for foreign affairs agreed to establish an Andean Community-MERCOSUR Mixed Commission to facilitate and strengthen co-operation between member countries of both organizations.</p>
               <p>In December 2005 Bolivia was invited to join as a full MERCOSUR member, and a request by Venezuela (which had been granted associate membership in December 2004) to become a member with full voting rights was also approved by MERCOSUR heads of state. Venezuela was welcomed as the fifth full member of MERCOSUR by the heads of state of Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay at an Inclusion Ceremony, held in Brazil on 31 July 2012. Bolivia signed an adhesion protocol in December, providing for full membership of the grouping (pending ratification by each country’s legislature). Paraguay, at that time suspended from MERCOSUR, criticized the decision to admit Bolivia without its consent. A revised adhesion protocol, incorporating Paraguay, was signed in July 2015. The final ratification—that of Brazil—was concluded in December 2023. Guyana and Suriname were accepted as associate members in July 2013; adhesion protocols to enable those countries to become observers were signed in July 2015.</p>
               <!--~ The Bolivian and Chilean presidents did not attend the 60th summit meeting in July 2022-->
               <p>
        In November 2014 the ministers responsible for foreign affairs of MERCOSUR and the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="DEVTANDEC.IO.4">Pacific Alliance</xr>
         (comprising Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Peru) met for the first time, in Cartagena, Colombia, to discuss future co-operation and potential areas for integration. Later in that month a second ministerial meeting was convened, in Santiago, Chile, which recommended that a focus on trade and investment convergence would be beneficial. Heads of state attending the first MERCOSUR-Pacific Alliance summit meeting, held in July 2018, in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, signed a letter of intent on the future development of a regional free trade agreement.
      </p>
               <!--Paraguay represents MERCOSUR resp. Pacific Alliance-->
               <p usage="sacac">
        The MERCOSUR presidency participated in July 2023 in the fourth Inter-Secretariat Meeting of subregional integration mechanisms, convened at the headquarters of the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="LAIA.IO">Latin American Integration Association</xr>
        , in Montevideo, Uruguay, with a focus on productive chains. (The inaugural meeting had been held in 2014.)
      </p>
               <p>In 2021 MERCOSUR’s largest trading partner was the People’s Republic of China, followed by the European Union (EU). The latter was the principal investor in the MERCOSUR member states.</p>
               <!--poss. areas for convergence incl. energy and infrastructure, free movements of ppl-->
               <p>
        In December 1995 MERCOSUR and the EU signed an Interregional Framework Cooperation Agreement, covering commercial and economic co-operation in the areas of trade, industry, science, and the institutional and cultural fields. Negotiations between MERCOSUR and the EU on the conclusion of an inter-regional Association Agreement commenced in 1999; they stalled, however, in 2005, owing to differences regarding market access, in particular with respect to EU agricultural markets and to the MERCOSUR telecommunications sector. A MERCOSUR-EU summit meeting, convened in Madrid, Spain, in May 2010, determined to restart the negotiations. An accord on the political dialogue and co-operation pillar of the proposed Association Agreement was eventually concluded in June 2018. At the 40th round of MERCOSUR-EU talks, held in June 2019, agreement was achieved on a final text of the trade pillar of the Association Agreement. This provided, 
        <i>inter alia,</i>
         for MERCOSUR member states to export annually up to 99,000 metric tons of beef to the EU with an average 7.5% tariff. Overall, MERCOSUR was to remove customs duties on 91% of EU imports, and the EU was to remove duties on 92% of imported goods from the MERCOSUR member states. Meanwhile, in August, a MERCOSUR-European Free Trade Association (EFTA) Free Trade Agreement was agreed in principle, subject to legal reviews by both sides. (EFTA comprises Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland.) Negotiations on the political and co-operation pillar of the MERCOSUR-EU Association Agreement were completed in June 2020. Several outstanding issues subsequently stalled the process of ratifying the Agreement. These were reported to include certain technical matters, for example relating to designations of origin; an insistence by Argentina that—following the recent withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU—the organization should declare the Islas Malvinas/Falkland Islands to be a disputed area; strong pressure by EU member states on Brazil to make a political commitment to curb Amazon deforestation; and a demand by France that the accord include guarantees on stringent environmental and health standards. In April 2021 the Spanish Government urged the prompt completion of the Agreement as a means of countering the expansion of Chinese interests in the MERCOSUR member states. President Emmanuel Macron of France, however, stated in September that the deal was incompatible with the global biodiversity and climate agenda. In February 2023 President Macron reiterated that the finalization of the Agreement would be postponed until MERCOSUR producers were bound by the same sanitary, environmental and climate-related standards and restrictions as those in EU member states. New environmental requirements relating to agriculture sector imports that were put forward in March by the EU were rejected at MERCOSUR’s 62nd summit. In June France’s Assemblée nationale (lower legislative assembly) emphatically adopted a (non-binding) resolution aimed at demonstrating its rejection of the draft MERCOSUR-EU accord as long as it did not comply with European production standards. In January 2024 President Macron indicated that concluding the MERCOSUR-EU deal would be `impossible’, and in February President Santiago Peña of Paraguay (holding the MERCOSUR presidency at that time) forecast that it would not be finalized during that year.
      </p>
               <!--March 2017 - contaminated meat scandal in Brazil - Irish Farmers Asscn pressing to withdraw meat from EU negotiations-->
               <p>Full free trade accords entered into effect between MERCOSUR and Israel in January 2010, and between MERCOSUR and Egypt on 1 September 2017. Preferential trade agreements entered into force with India in June 2009 and with the Southern African Customs Union in April 2016. In 2018 negotiations were initiated between India and MERCOSUR that aimed to enhance their co-operation, with a view to increasing the numbers of products given tariff concessions from around 450 to more than 3,000. A framework agreement on trade with Morocco entered into effect in April 2010, and in December MERCOSUR concluded a trade and economic co-operation agreement with the Palestinian National Authority and a framework accord to establish a free trade agreement with the Syrian Arab Republic. Agreements to establish mechanisms for political dialogue and co-operation were signed at that time with Cuba and Turkey (now known as Türkiye). Formal negotiations between MERCOSUR and Canada were initiated in March 2018. In May MERCOSUR and the Republic of Korea launched negotiations on establishing a trade agreement (the seventh round was initiated in August 2021). Talks on a MERCOSUR-Singapore Free Trade Agreement (MCSFTA), initiated in July 2018, were finalized in July 2022. </p>
               <p>
        In April 2021 Uruguay formally requested consultations to address expanding the flexibility of the MERCOSUR format to enable member states unilaterally to sign trade deals with third countries. At the 58th meeting of the Common Market Council, in early July, the Uruguayan Government issued a formal announcement that it would henceforth negotiate `extra-zone’ bilateral trade agreements alone, while remaining a full member of MERCOSUR, a position rejected by Argentina. Notably, in September negotiations on a Uruguay-China trade deal were initiated. Prior to the 61st MERCOSUR summit, held in December 2022, Uruguay announced that it planned to apply unilaterally to join the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-OTHER.DEV.43">Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership</xr>
        . After the summit, Uruguay issued a statement underlining its intention to exploit trading opportunities beyond the MERCOSUR framework. Following his inauguration in January 2023, Brazilian President Lula da Silva declared his intention to reinforce the unity of MERCOSUR. In that month, while stating opposition to the proposed unilateral Uruguay-China free trade arrangement, Lula urged the closure of the stalled MERCOSUR-EU deal, to then be followed by the initiation of collective negotiations on a MERCOSUR-China FTA. In April China indicated that it would prefer to negotiate with the collective MERCOSUR membership over a discrete FTA with Uruguay. The MCSFTA was signed at the summit meeting held in December. It was announced in March 2024 that negotiations on a MERCOSUR-Japan FTA would commence in April, and that similar discussions could be initiated during the year with the United Arab Emirates.
      </p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="MERCOSUR.IO.40" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Finance</heading>
          <p id="MERCOSUR.IO.28">In December 2023 the 63rd summit approved a budget of US&#8201;$4.0m. for the secretariat in 2024, to be funded by contributions from the full member states.</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="MERCOSUR.IO.41" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Publications</heading>
          <publ-list>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Boletín Oficial del MERCOSUR</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">quarterly</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Semi-Annual Report of the MERCOSUR Secretariat</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
          </publ-list>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="MERCOSUR.IO.001" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Subsidiary Bodies</heading>
          <!--Could be just for EDIO / SACAC-->
          <org-list>
               <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Instituto de Politicas Públicas en Derechos Humanos</org-entry-name>
                         <alt-name>MERCOSUR Institute of Public Policies on Human Rights </alt-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>Avda del Libertador 8151, Buenos Aires, Argentina</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(11) 5217-1288</telephone>
                         <email>info@ippdh.mercosur.int</email>
                         <internet>www.ippdh.mercosur.int</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>2009</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">a technical investigative body providing human rights training, policy formation, technical advice and communications support</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">in Dec. 2023 the 63rd MERCOSUR summit approved a budget of US&#8201;$396,898 for the institute in 2024</content-note>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Exec. Dir</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Andressa</forename>
                                   <surname>Caldas</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Brazil</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Instituto Social del MERCOSUR</org-entry-name>
                         <alt-name>MERCOSUR Social Institute</alt-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>Avda Gral. San Martín, Ed. SkyCenter, Of. 403, Asunción, Paraguay</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(21) 614909</telephone>
                         <email>ism@ismercosur.org</email>
                         <internet>www.ismercosur.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>2009</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">a technical research body supporting MERCOSUR’s policy making on the inclusive social dimension of regional integration</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">in Dec. 2023 the 63rd summit approved a budget of US&#8201;$435,130 for the institute in 2024</content-note>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Exec. Dir</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Mariana</forename>
                                   <surname>Penadés Mintegui</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Uruguay</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
          </org-list>
     </int-org-section>
</int-org-entry>