<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="IO-UN.1157" id-root="io-un.1157" iso="io-un.1157" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs</org-entry-name>
               <abbr>OCHA</abbr>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">UNITED NATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb">United Nations (Other Bodies)</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="edio">Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>United Nations Plaza, New York, NY 10017, USA; Palais des Nations, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland</verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <telephone alsofax="N">(212) 963-1234 (New York)</telephone>
               <fax>(212) 963-1312 (New York)</fax>
               <email>unocha@un.org</email>
               <internet>www.unocha.org</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p id="IO-UN.1158">OCHA was established in January 1998 as part of the UN Secretariat, replacing the Department of Humanitarian Affairs (established in December 1991 and headed by the newly-created position of Emergency Relief Coordinator—ERC). OCHA has a mandate to mobilize and co-ordinate the global emergency response to humanitarian crises, as well as to provide policy advice and leadership on humanitarian issues.</p>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1159" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <heading-note>April 2024</heading-note>
          <p>OCHA has its headquarters in New York, USA, and in Geneva, Switzerland. There are Divisions of Co-ordination; Financing and Partnerships; and Operations and Advocacy. There are also branches of Information Management and Strategic Communications.</p>
          <!--posts, pay being cut during 2021 -->
          <dir-list>
               <dir-entry id="IO-UN.1161" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                    <dir-entry-name>Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator</dir-entry-name>
                    <person-group>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Martin</forename>
                                   <surname>Griffiths</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>UK</person-note>
                              <person-note>until June 2024</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </person-group>
               </dir-entry>
          </dir-list>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1159.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Global Presence</heading>
               <p>OCHA maintains two global hubs: in The Hague (Netherlands) and in İstanbul (Türkiye); five regional offices: in Dakar, Senegal (for West and Central Africa), Nairobi, Kenya (Southern and Eastern Africa), Cairo, Egypt (Middle East and North Africa), Bangkok, Thailand (Asia and the Pacific), and Panama City, Panama (Latin America and the Caribbean); 29 country offices; and 21 humanitarian adviser teams.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1162" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Activities</heading>
          <p>OCHA’s activities are centred on its core functions: co-ordination; information management; advocacy; policy; and humanitarian financing. A Strategic Plan for the four-year period 2023-26 recognized the immense and complex challenges contributing to escalating global humanitarian needs, including the climate crisis, pandemics, economic inequality, food insecurity, and conflict. The Plan identified the following six transformational priorities to revise and focus OCHA’s efforts, throughout its existing core functions: A coherent humanitarian response that is people centred, context specific, contributes to community resilience and promotes concrete protection outcomes; Systematic and predictable leadership on access; Durable solutions to protracted internal displacement; Humanitarian response that is inclusive and leaves no one behind; Catalytic humanitarian financing that delivers impact in people’s lives; and Strategic analysis of risks and trends to adapt to an evolving landscape.</p>
          <int-org-section id="UN.OCHA.IO.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Co-ordination</heading>
               <p>OCHA co-ordinates and aims to expand the reach of humanitarian action, with a focus on reducing duplication and prioritizing the most vulnerable recipients. OCHA undertakes critical situational and gender-responsive analyses, to provide diverse agencies with an overview of crises and to support the agreement of common priorities and collective response planning. A humanitarian programme cycle (HPC) provides a framework for emergency response, comprising the following core elements: needs assessment and analysis; strategic response planning; mobilization of resources; implementation and monitoring; and operational peer review and evaluation. OCHA promotes promotes strong leadership by the in-country Humanitarian Coordinator; inclusive, representative humanitarian country teams; and a robust cluster approach. Tools formulated by the Office to enhance effective and co-ordinated strategic planning include a humanitarian action dashboard, a data entry and exploratory platform (DEEP), a humanitarian indicator registry, and a Joint and Intersectoral Analysis Framework (JIAF).</p>
               <p>During 2023-25 a new Flagship Initiative of the Emergency Co-ordinator, under which response efforts were to be directly driven by the priorities of crisis-affected communities, was being piloted, initially in Colombia, Niger, the Philippines and South Sudan.</p>
               <p>Through its UN Disaster Assessment and Co-ordination (UNDAC) system, OCHA, with donor support, establishes UNDAC teams that are available for immediate deployment to disaster-affected countries or regions to help to determine requirements and to co-ordinate assistance. OCHA hosts the secretariat of a multinational International Search and Rescue Advisory Group (INSARAG), concerned specifically with urban search and rescue (USAR) issues. INSARAG facilitates information exchange, defines standards for international USAR assistance, and develops methodology for international co-ordination in earthquake response. The Office also supports several surge-capacity mechanisms aimed at facilitating rapid responses by humanitarian agencies worldwide. Through the OCHA Civil Military Coordination Service (CMCS) it promotes effective co-operation between civilian and military actors in humanitarian operations.</p>
               <!--A UN Humanitarian Response Depot-comprising a network of five depots, based in Ghana, United Arab Emirates, Malaysia, Panama, and Italy-is maintained by the World Food Programme (q.v.).-->
               <p-group id="IO-OCHA.1">
                    <heading>Inter-Agency Standing Committee (IASC)</heading>
                    <p>The ERC chairs the IASC, which is led by the executive heads of some 23 UN bodies and other humanitarian agencies, and co-ordinates and administers the international response to humanitarian disasters and the development of relevant policies. In 2024 the following bodies were designated as `entities associated with the IASC': the IASC Reference Group on Gender and Humanitarian Action; the IASC Reference Group on Mental Health and Psychosocial Support in Emergency Settings; the Inter-Agency Humanitarian Evaluations Steering Group; the Global Cluster Co-ordination Group; and the Humanitarian Programme Cycle Steering Group.</p>
                    <p>The IASC co-ordinates international emergency humanitarian assistance through a `Cluster Approach' (initiated in 2005). This comprises 11 core areas of activity, with designated global cluster lead agencies, as follows: Camp Co-ordination/Management (UNHCR, conflict situations; IOM, disasters); Early Recovery (UNDP); Education (UNICEF; Save The Children); Emergency Telecommunications (WFP); Food Security (WFP; FAO); Health (WHO); Logistics (WFP); Nutrition (UNICEF); Protection (UNHCR has the overall lead); Shelter (UNHCR, conflict situations; International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, disasters); Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (UNICEF). OCHA supports inter-cluster co-ordination, including in their needs assessment, planning and operational phases; collaborates with the global cluster lead agencies, as well as NGOs, on policy development; and provides guidance and support in relation to field activities. IASC Humanitarian System-wide Scale-Up Protocols underpin the rapid mobilization of operational capacities and resources.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="UN.OCHA.IO.1.2" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Advocacy</heading>
               <p>OCHA works to promote awareness of and respect for international humanitarian and human rights law; to support crisis-affected populations in obtaining humanitarian access and assistance, protection, and an environment of accountability; and to raise public awareness of low profile crises. OCHA’s Leading Edge Programme fosters continuous collaboration between technical experts and networks with the aim of enhancing crisis preparedness.</p>
               <p>OCHA observes an annual World Humanitarian Day (19 August), helps to organize an annual Protection of Civilians Week, during late May, and, through the Leading Edge Programme, convenes an annual Humanitarian Networks and Partnerships Weeks event (2024: late April-mid-May).</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="UN.OCHA.IO.1.3" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Policy Development</heading>
               <p>OCHA supports the formulation of evidence-based humanitarian policy and promotes normative standards founded on humanitarian principles and law. Through its evaluation of humanitarian action OCHA identifies best practices and sets the agenda for reform of the humanitarian sector. The ERC is the main adviser to the UN Secretary-General on humanitarian matters. In December 2023 OCHA and the UN Foundation convened, online, the 12th annual Global Humanitarian Policy Forum, which included a High-level Panel segment titled `A World in Turmoil, a Humanitarian System under Stress’.</p>
               <!--In October 2017 OCHA documented good military policy and practice in relation to the use of explosive weapons in populated areas.-->
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="UN.OCHA.IO.1.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Information Management</heading>
               <p>OCHA supports the collation, analysis and inter-agency sharing of information relating to emergencies and protracted crises, in order to support informed decision making and effective responses by the humanitarian community. Situation reports, maps, graphics, etc., are issued. OCHA maintains ReliefWeb, which was launched in 1996, and issues humanitarian updates on, and analysis of, natural disasters and other crisis situations. The OCHA-administered UN Centre for Humanitarian Data, which was inaugurated in December 2017, in The Hague, manages the Humanitarian Data Exchange (HDX), a global data-sharing platform.</p>
               <!--OCHA-HDX COVID-19 Data Explorer dashboard terminated viii.2023-->
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="UN.OCHA.IO.2" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Humanitarian Financing</heading>
               <p>OCHA aims to mobilize funds and financing mechanisms to meet global humanitarian needs. It works with partners to assess the most critical needs and to plan effective responses. An annual Global Humanitarian Overview is published to highlight the humanitarian situation in the context of global and regional trends, as well as to appeal for funding for specific country or subregional needs. Global requirements are adjusted continuously throughout each year (reported online at humanitarianaction.info) as response initiatives are revised to reflect ongoing needs. OCHA manages a Financial Tracking Service, based in İstanbul, Türkiye, which acts as a multi-agency reporting mechanism to monitor the flow of funding into a particular humanitarian operation.</p>
               <p>The 2024 Global Humanitarian Overview, launched in December 2023, assessed that US&#8201;$46,400m. was needed by the UN and partner agencies to respond to the very urgent needs of 180.5m. highly vulnerable people in 72 countries during 2024. OCHA projected the overall total number of people in need of humanitarian or protection support in 2024 at 299m. The most costly response initiatives (as foreseen at December 2023) were the Syria Humanitarian Response Plan (HRP) and Regional Refugee and Resilience Plan (3RP), which required funding of $4,400m. and $5,540m., respectively. Others included the Ukraine HRP and Regional Response Plan (RRP) (requiring, respectively, $3,100m. and $1,040m.); the Afghanistan HRP and RRP ($3,060m. and $620m., respectively); the Ethiopia HRP ($2,880m.); the Yemen HRP ($2,800m.); the Sudan HRP ($2,700m.); the South Sudan HRP and RRP ($1,790m. and $981m., respectively); the Democratic Republic of the Congo HRP and RRP ($2,600m. and $230m., respectively); the Somalia HRP ($1,700m.); the 2024 Venezuela Regional Refugee and Migrant Response Plan (covering 17 countries that were hosting people who had fled instability and poverty in Venezuela, and requiring $1,590m.); the HRP for the Occupied Palestinian Territory ($1,200m.); the Chad HRP ($1,180m.); and the HRP for Myanmar ($994m.).</p>
               <!--10.i.24. Four countries— Burundi, Kenya, Malawi and Pakistan—have discontinued their humanitarian plans/appeals for 2024. Lebanon will no longer produce a country-specific Emergency Response Plan but rather has moved its humanitarian response under the Syria 3RP-->
               <p>OCHA also manages pooled funds of voluntary contributions from governments or private donors. The ERC, on behalf of the UN Secretary-General, administers the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF), which was established in December 2005 with three key objectives: the promotion of early action and response to save lives in the case of newly emerging crises or deterioration of existing complex crises, through an initial injection of funds before further donor contributions become available; an enhanced response to time-crucial requirements based on demonstrable needs; and strengthening core elements of humanitarian response in underfunded crises. By January 2024 the CERF had (since 2006) raised some US&#8201;$9,000m. In 2023 the Fund received donations totalling $558.6m., from 63 member states and 10 other donors. During 2023 the ERC allocated 40.9% of the total CERF allocated funding of $663.3m. to support underfunded emergencies.</p>
               <p>At a national level, OCHA—under the direction of the relevant Humanitarian Coordinator—manages Country-based Pooled Funds (CBPFs) which are established in response to sudden onset or rapidly deteriorating crises to enable the implementation of prompt co-ordinated humanitarian field activities, in accordance with priorities detailed in the relevant HRPs. In 2023 some US&#8201;$1,170m. was donated to CBPFs, and $1,100m. in CBPF funding was allocated to 1,268 projects. Other so-called specially designated contributions (SDCs) channelled through OCHA include those used to fund UNDAC missions.</p>
               <!--Country-based Pooled Funds Emergency Response Funds Common Humanitarian Funds - predictable pool of funding for protacted critical humanitarian situations Islamic social finance -->
               <!--International Early Warning Programme Corporate emergencies -->
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.OCHA.HUM.SUMMIT.2016" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Agenda for Humanity</heading>
               <p>OCHA led the preparatory process for the inaugural World Humanitarian Summit (WHS), which was convened in May 2016, in İstanbul, Türkiye. It aimed to develop new and coherent means of humanitarian co-operation in order to address the root causes of humanitarian crises (which were attributed to factors such as rapid demographic change, food insecurity, water scarcity, urbanization and climate change); to improve political diplomacy for conflict prevention and resolution; and to co-ordinate humanitarian, development and peacebuilding efforts. Leaders attending the WHS endorsed five core humanitarian responsibilities—Political leadership to prevent and end conflict; Uphold the norms that safeguard humanity; Leave no one behind; Change people’s lives: from delivering aid to ending need; and Invest in humanity. OCHA was committed to promoting implementation of the outcomes of the summit.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb">
        Initiatives approved by the WHS included a new fund, `Education Cannot Wait’, which aimed to ensure the continued delivery of good quality education to all children caught up in emergencies and protracted crises (see 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.1231">UNICEF</xr>
        ); a Compact for Young People in Humanitarian Action; a Charter on Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities in Humanitarian Action; a Regional Organisations Humanitarian Action Network (ROHAN), tasked with strengthening preparedness and response capacity within and collaboration between regional organizations; a Global Preparedness Partnership, comprising the UN, World Bank, and the Vulnerable 20 Group of Finance Ministers, to help at-risk countries to achieve a minimum level of preparedness for future shocks; a global Alliance for Urban Crises; a Global Alliance for Humanitarian Innovation; a global initiative aimed at improving health provision in crises; and a Connecting Business 
        
        initiative (CBi), tasked with enhancing linkages between private sector skills and resources before, during and after emergencies. The summit committed to pursuing over the next 10 years the `One Billion Coalition for Resilience’ (1BC) campaign, which had been initiated in March 2015 to strengthen the safety and wellbeing of vulnerable populations globally by mobilizing 1,000m. people to enhance community resilience. Also, the UN Secretary-General, the World Bank, and several other UN agencies adopted a `Commitment to Action’ on future co-operation in developing a `new way of working’, with a view to strengthening the UN’s capacity to reduce communities’ vulnerability to risk, meet crisis-related needs, and manage risk. Satellite and mobile companies launched new charters during the WHS that were to provide for increased connectivity for crisis-affected communities. The WHS endorsed the Core Humanitarian Standard on Quality and Accountability that had been adopted in December 2014 (establishing nine commitments to improve the quality and effectiveness of humanitarian assistance). Furthermore, 15 donors and 15 aid agencies endorsed a Grand Bargain agreement, which aimed to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of emergency assistance provision.
      </p>
               <!--Global Financing Response Platform -->
               <p-group>
                    <heading usage="edio">Political Leadership to Prevent and End Conflict</heading>
                    <p usage="edio">The WHS recognized that genuine political commitment and collective, decisive action are essential in preventing and ending conflicts, in reducing fragility, and in strengthening good governance. A complementary approach to conflict prevention was outlined, combining preventive diplomacy, the promotion of sustainable development, addressing climate change, upholding human rights, and developing inclusive societies. The summit affirmed the need to collect, analyse, share and act on relevant early warning information, and the need for stronger political leadership to support conflict prevention, mediation, and peaceful resolution. A World Prevention Forum was proposed to consolidate ongoing conflict prevention efforts.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading usage="edio">Uphold the Norms that Safeguard Humanity</heading>
                    <p usage="edio">Leaders attending the WHS announced commitments aimed at enhancing compliance with international humanitarian and human rights law to ensure the protection of civilians exposed to armed conflict. These included developing relevant national legislation; promoting the ratification and application of, and awareness of, relevant core international treaties; and enhancing related training for national armed forces and non-state armed groups. </p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading usage="edio">Leave No One Behind</heading>
                    <p usage="edio">
          Participants at the summit made a commitment that all necessary support would be provided to refugees and internally displaced persons (IDPs), and to other people in crisis situations, and emphasized that global displacement is a responsibility that should be shared by all. They resolved to pursue a strengthened approach to addressing the needs of refugees and IDPs that would ensure that immediate humanitarian needs were met, as well as enabling their—and host communities’—longer-term self-reliance. Participants pledged to generate livelihood and education opportunities for displaced people, and committed to the provision of more predictable multi-year funding in this respect. New methods and financial support were announced aimed at creating accountability in gender equality programming, and plans were launched to halt any tolerance of gender-based violence against women and girls. A new fund, `Education Cannot Wait’, was launched to ensure the continued delivery of good quality education to all children caught up in emergencies and protracted crises. (See 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.1231">UNICEF</xr>
          .) A Compact for Young People in Humanitarian Action and a Charter on Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities in Humanitarian Action were also initiated.
        </p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading usage="edio">Change People’s Lives: From Delivering Aid to Ending Need</heading>
                    <p usage="edio">The WHS recognized that humanitarian emergencies should not be viewed in isolation from broader sustainable development efforts, and emphasized the Core Humanitarian Standard on Quality and Accountability that had been adopted in December 2014 (establishing nine commitments to improve the quality and effectiveness of humanitarian assistance). A Regional Organisations Humanitarian Action Network (ROHAN) was initiated, tasked with strengthening preparedness and response capacity within and collaboration between regional organizations. Meanwhile, a Global Preparedness Partnership was launched by the UN, the World Bank, and the Vulnerable 20 Group of Finance Ministers, to help at-risk countries to achieve a minimum level of preparedness for future shocks. A Global Alliance for Urban Crises was inaugurated, as well as a Global Alliance for Humanitarian Innovation, mandated to advance transformative improvements in humanitarian action. A new global initiative aimed at improving health provision in crises was also launched. A Connecting Business Initiative (CBi) was established, which was to enhance linkages between private sector skills and resources before, during and after emergencies; furthermore, satellite and mobile companies launched new charters that were to provide for increased connectivity for crisis-affected communities. The summit committed to pursuing over the next 10 years the `One Billion Coalition for Resilience’ campaign, which had been initiated in March 2015 to strengthen the safety and wellbeing of vulnerable populations globally by mobilizing 1,000m. people to enhance community resilience. Also, the UN Secretary-General, the World Bank, and several other UN agencies adopted a `Commitment to Action’ on future co-operation in developing a `new way of working’, with a view to strengthening the UN’s capacity to reduce communities’ vulnerability to risk, meet crisis-related needs, and manage risk.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading usage="edio">Invest in Humanity</heading>
                    <p usage="edio">The WHS emphasized the key role of sufficient and predictable financing in reducing as well as in meeting crisis-related needs, and in supporting the new `Commitment to Action’. Pledges were made to ensure that more than 130m. people in need globally would have increased access to humanitarian assistance and protection. Some 15 donors and 15 aid agencies endorsed a Grand Bargain agreement, which aimed to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of emergency assistance provision. The World Bank, meanwhile, agreed to establish a Global Financing Response Platform, which was to support, at low interest rates, long-term development projects designed to address fragility.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1167" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Finance</heading>
          <p id="IO-UN.1168">OCHA receives 5% of its financial resource requirements from the core UN budget (the appropriation allocated in 2024 amounted to US&#8201;$28.7m.). The remainder is drawn from voluntary contributions. An OCHA Donor Support Group, comprising 30 member states, provides advice on policy, management and financial matters. </p>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1169" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Publications</heading>
          <publ-list>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Annual Report</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Global Humanitarian Overview</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>World Humanitarian Data and Trends</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
          </publ-list>
          <p>Humanitarian country reports, bulletins, flash updates.</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <!--8.iv.24 - 3,053 words-->
</int-org-entry>