<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="OPEC.IO" id-root="opec.io" iso="opec.io" original-filename="wb02066.txt" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio mena"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries</org-entry-name>
               <abbr>OPEC</abbr>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">MAJOR NON-UN ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="mena">REGIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb edio mena">Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>Helferstorferstr. 17, 1010 Vienna, Austria</verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <telephone alsofax="N">(1) 211-12-3303</telephone>
               <fax>(1) 216-43-20</fax>
               <email>prid@opec.org</email>
               <internet>www.opec.org</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p id="OPEC.IO.4">OPEC was established in 1960, by Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela. It aims to unify and co-ordinate members’ petroleum policies and to safeguard their interests, as well as to stabilize the global petroleum market. </p>
          <int-org-section id="OPEC.IO.113" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Members</heading>
               <table-block-simple id="OPEC.IO.114" type="OTHER">
                    <table pgwide="NO" style="WITHOUT-RULES">
                         <tgroup cols="3">
                              <colspec colwidth="6.5cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="6.5cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="7.0cm" />
                              <tbody>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Algeria</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Iran</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Nigeria</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Congo, Republic</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Iraq</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Saudi Arabia</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Equatorial Guinea</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Kuwait</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">United Arab Emirates</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Gabon</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Libya</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Venezuela</entry>
                                   </row>
                              </tbody>
                         </tgroup>
                    </table>
               </table-block-simple>
               <p usage="edio mena">Note: Ecuador, having become a member in 1973 withdrew from OPEC in 1992 and Gabon (1975) did so in 1996. Angola became a member in 2007, while Ecuador rejoined in the same year. Indonesia withdrew from OPEC in 2009; having requested, in September 2015, that it rejoin the organization, its membership was reactivated on 1 January 2016. However, following the decision by the Conference in late November to limit production output, Indonesia announced that it was suspending its membership with immediate effect. In June ministers agreed to a request from Gabon that it be readmitted as a full member. Equatorial Guinea was admitted into the organization in May 2017. The Republic of the Congo was admitted as a member in June 2018. Qatar, a member since 1961, withdrew from OPEC in January 2019, reportedly owing to a strategic realignment of its energy policy towards natural gas production, as well as ongoing diplomatic tensions with Saudi Arabia. On 1 January 2020 Ecuador, citing reasons related to the pursuit of fiscal sustainability, left OPEC for the second time. Angola terminated its membership of the organization on 1 January 2024.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="OPEC.IO.115" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <heading-note>June 2024</heading-note>
          <int-org-section id="OPEC.IO.116" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Conference</heading>
               <p>The Conference is the supreme authority of the organization, re­sponsible for the formulation of its general policy. It consists of representatives of member countries, who examine reports and recommendations submitted by the Board of Governors. It approves the appointment of governors from each country and elects the Chairman of the Board of Governors. It works on the unanimity principle, and normally meets at least twice a year. The Conference Presidency is rotated on an annual basis (2024: Gabon).</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="OPEC.IO.117" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Board of Governors</heading>
               <p id="OPEC.IO.18">The Board directs the management of OPEC; it implements resolutions of the Conference and draws up an annual budget. It consists of one governor for each member country, and meets at least twice a year.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="OPEC.IO.1.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Joint Ministerial Monitoring Committee</heading>
               <p>Comprising representatives of three OPEC member states (Algeria, Kuwait and Venezuela) and two non-member states (the Russian Federation and Oman), the Committee was established in January 2017 to oversee implementation of the decision on oil production of the 171st (November 2016) OPEC Conference, and the related Declaration of Cooperation made in December by 11 non-member states. (Following the accession of Equatorial Guinea to OPEC in 2017, 10 non-OPEC member states upheld the Declaration.) A subsidiary Joint OPEC-Non-OPEC Technical Committee presents to the JMMC a monthly data report on combined production. The JMMC also facilitates the exchange of joint forecasts and analyses. In October 2022 the Committee agreed to amend the frequency of meetings from monthly to every two months.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="OPEC.IO.120" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Secretariat</heading>
               <p usage="ewyb">The secretariat comprises the Office of the Secretary-General, a Legal Office and Divisions of Research (overseeing departments of data services, energy studies, petroleum studies and an environmental matters unit) and of Support Services.</p>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="OPEC.IO.21" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Secretary-General</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Haitham</forename>
                                        <surname>Al-Ghais</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Kuwait</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="OPEC.IO.125" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Activities</heading>
          <p>OPEC’s principal objectives, according to its Statute, are to co-ordinate and unify the petroleum policies of member countries and to determine the best means of safeguarding their individual and collective interests; to devise means of ensuring the stabil­ization of prices in international oil markets, with a view to eliminating harmful and unnecessary fluctuations; and to provide a steady income to the producing countries, an efficient, economic and regular supply of petroleum to consuming nations, and a fair return on capital to those investing in the petroleum industry. In 2022 OPEC's share of world crude petroleum production was 39.7% (compared with 54.7% in 1974). OPEC members possessed 79.5% of the world's total known crude petroleum reserves at the end of 2022. In that year OPEC members also possessed 35.8% of known reserves of natural gas, and accounted for 16.1% of total marketed production of natural gas.</p>
          <p>
      In November 2016 the Conference adopted its third Long-Term Strategy, setting objectives relating to, 
      <i>inter alia,</i>
       member countries' petroleum revenues, market stability, global demand, share in world oil supply, and future energy demand. (The first such Strategy had been adopted in September 2005.)
    </p>
          <int-org-section id="OPEC.IO.001" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Prices and Production</heading>
               <p>On 3 June 2024 the OPEC Reference Basket (ORB) price stood at US&#8201;$81.30, close to the yearly average for 2023 ($82.95). During 2022 the ORB price had averaged $100.08 (with a high of $128.27 on 9 March, following the Russian invasion of Ukraine). In 2024 the ORB was based on the following crude oils: Saharan Blend (Algeria), Djeno (Republic of the Congo), Zafiro (Equatorial Guinea), Rabi Light (Gabon), Iran Heavy (Islamic Republic of Iran), Basrah Medium (Iraq), Kuwait Export (Kuwait), Es Sider (Libya), Bonny Light (Nigeria), Arab Light (Saudi Arabia) and Murban (UAE), and Merey (Venezuela).</p>
               <p-group id="OPEC.IO-112">
                    <heading usage="edio">1960-79</heading>
                    <p usage="edio">OPEC’s five original members (Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela) first met following the imposition of price reductions by petroleum companies in the previous month (August 1960). During the 1960s members sought to assert their rights in an international petroleum market that was dominated by multinational companies. Between 1965 and 1967 a two-year joint production programme limited annual growth in output so as to secure adequate prices. During the 1970s member states increased their control over their domestic petroleum industries, and over the pricing of crude petroleum on world markets. In 1971 the five-year Tehran Agreement on pricing was concluded between the six producing countries from the Arabian Gulf region and 23 petroleum companies. In January 1972 petroleum companies agreed to adjust the petroleum revenues of the largest producers after changes in currency exchange rates (Geneva Agreement), and in 1973 OPEC and the petroleum companies agreed to raise posted prices of crude petroleum by 11.9% and installed a mechanism to make monthly adjustments to prices in future (Second Geneva Agreement). In October of that year a pricing crisis occurred when Arab member states refused to supply petroleum to nations that had supported Israel in its conflict with Egypt and Syria earlier in that month. Negotiations on the revision of the Tehran Agreement failed at that time, and the Gulf states unilaterally declared increases of 70% in posted prices, from US&#8201;$3.01 to $5.11 per barrel. In December (despite Saudi Arabian opposition) the OPEC Conference decided to increase the price to $11.65 per barrel. OPEC’s first summit meeting of heads of state or of government was held in March 1975, and in September a ministerial meeting agreed to increase prices by 10% for the period to June 1976. Prices remained stable until the end of 1978. The overthrow of the Iranian Government in early 1979, however, led to a new steep increase in petroleum prices.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="OPEC.IO.31">
                    <heading>1980-99</heading>
                    <p>In March 1982 an emergency meeting of ministers responsible for petroleum agreed (for the first time in OPEC’s history) to defend the organization’s price structure by imposing an overall production `ceiling’ (initially 18m. b/d). Quotas were allocated for each member country except Saudi Arabia, which was to act as a `swing producer’ to supply the balancing quantities to meet market requirements. During 1985, however, most members effectively abandoned the marker price system. In August 1986 all members except Iraq agreed upon a return to production quotas (Iraq declined to co-operate after its request to be allocated the same quota as Iran was refused). In December members (except Iraq) agreed to return, with effect from 1 February 1987, to a fixed pricing system, at a level of US&#8201;$18 per barrel as the ORB price (based on a `basket’ of, then, seven crudes, not, as hitherto, on a `marker’ crude, Arab Light). A total production limit of 15.8m. b/d was set. OPEC’s role of setting crude oil prices had come to an end, however, and from the late 1980s prices were determined by movements in the international markets, with OPEC’s role being to increase or restrain production in order to prevent harmful fluctuations in prices.</p>
                    <p>In August 1990 Iraq invaded Kuwait (which it had accused, among other grievances, of violating production quotas). Petroleum exports by the two countries were halted by an international embargo, and OPEC ministers promptly allowed an increase in production by other members to stabilize rising prices. In 1993 a Ministerial Monitoring Sub-committee was established to supervise compliance with quotas, owing to members’ persistent over production. By the end of that year petroleum prices fell below US&#8201;$14 per barrel, after the Conference rejected any further reduction in the current limit of 24.5m. b/d, which remained in force during 1994 and 1995, although actual output continued to be well in excess of quotas. In May 1996 the United Nations (UN) and Iraq concluded an agreement allowing Iraq to resume exports of petroleum in order to fund humanitarian relief efforts within that country; OPEC’s overall production ceiling was raised, accordingly, to 25.0m. b/d from June. Prices declined during the first half of 1997; an escalation in political tension in the Gulf region, however, and in particular Iraq’s reluctance to co-operate with UN weapons inspectors, prompted a price increase to about $21.2 per barrel in October. The overall production ceiling was raised to 27.5m. b/d, with effect from the beginning of 1998, but during that year prices declined and OPEC imposed a succession of reductions in output. Non-member countries concluded agreements with OPEC to limit their production, and in March 1999 Mexico, Norway, Oman and Russia agreed to decrease production by a total of 388,000 b/d, while OPEC’s own production limit was reduced to 22.97m. b/d.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="OPEC.IO.32">
                    <heading>2000-15</heading>
                    <p>In September 2000 OPEC heads of state and of government, convened at their first summit meeting since 1975, issued the Caracas Declaration, in which they resolved to promote market stability through their policies on pricing and production, to increase co-operation with other petroleum exporters, and to improve communication with consumer countries. From 2001 overall production was limited to 24.2m. b/d, with a further reduction of 1m. b/d from 1 September. Terrorist attacks in the USA in September gave rise to market uncertainty and a further decline in prices. In December the Conference announced a reduction in output (to 21.7m. b/d) from l January 2002, provided that non-OPEC producers also reduced their output, which they agreed to do by 462,500 b/d. From 1 January 2003 the production ceiling was raised to 23m. b/d, but stricter compliance with individual quotas equated to a reduction in actual output, and prices rose above the target range. In January the Conference agreed to raise the production ceiling to 24.5m. b/d from 1 February, and in March members agreed to make up from their available excess capacities any shortfall that might result following US-led military action against Iraq. In the event, the war on Iraq that commenced later in that month led to such a rapid overthrow of Saddam Hussain’s regime that there were fears that a petroleum surplus would result, and a production ceiling of 25.4m. b/d was set with effect from the beginning of June: although higher than the previous limit, it represented a 2m. b/d reduction in actual output at that time. The production ceiling of 24.5m. b/d was reinstated from 1 November, in view of the gradual revival of Iraqi exports. In 2004 petroleum prices increased considerably, despite OPEC’s raising its production ceiling, in several stages, from the 23.5m. b/d limit imposed from 1 April to 27m.&#160;b/d with effect from 1 November. The production ceiling was increased to 27.5m. b/d in March 2005 and to 28m. b/d in June; nevertheless, the ORB price averaged US $50.6 per barrel over the year. The March Conference expressed particular concern that a shortage of effective global refining capacity was also contributing to higher prices, and announced that members had accelerated the implementation of existing capacity expansion plans. During 2006 petroleum prices continued to rise, with the ORB price averaging $61.1 per barrel for the year. In November the production ceiling was lowered to 26.3m. b/d, and a further reduction of 500,000 b/d was announced in December. In November 2007 the third OPEC summit meeting agreed on principles concerning the stability of global energy markets, the role of energy in sustainable development, and the relationship between energy and environmental concerns. At 11 July 2008 the ORB price reached a record high of $147.27 per barrel, although by late October it had decreased to below $60 per barrel. An extraordinary meeting of the Conference, convened in late October, determined to decrease the production ceiling by 1.5m. b/d, with effect from 1 November. A subsequent extraordinary Conference meeting, held in mid-December, agreed to reduce production further, by 4.7m. b/d from the actual total production in September, with effect from 1 January 2009. By 24 December 2008 the ORB price had fallen to $33.36 per barrel.</p>
                    <p>The ORB price stabilized in early 2009 when a meeting of the Conference determined to maintain current production levels, but urged member states' full compliance with them (this had stood at 79% in February). Meeting in May the Conference Conference welcomed the positive effect of recent production decisions in redressing the balance of supply and demand, and decided to maintain current production levels. By mid-June 2009 the ORB price had risen to US&#8201;$70.9 per barrel. Reviewing the situation at the next meeting, convened in September, the Conference observed that the global economic situation continued to be very fragile and that the petroleum market remained over supplied, and determined once more to maintain existing production levels. An ordinary meeting of the Conference that was held in June 2011—following, in the first half of that year, the unforeseen eruption of unrest and uncertainty in several Middle Eastern and North African countries and a sharp increase in petroleum prices—failed to reach consensus on a proposed agreement to raise output. In December OPEC ministers agreed to maintain the production ceiling at current actual output levels (some 30m. b/d). This subsequently remained unchanged, and was reaffirmed by the Conference in November 2014.</p>
                    <p>Extraordinary technical meetings between OPEC officials and experts and counterparts from non-member states were held in May and October 2015, to address declining oil prices. In December OPEC ministers failed to conclude any agreement on production output, and omitted mention of the previous target of 30m. b/d. Factors to which the downward trend in oil prices at that time was attributed included an increase in unconventional energy supplies (shale gas and so-called tight oil—also found in shale and other rock formations with low permeability), in particular from the USA, and weak economic growth in the People’s Republic of China and Europe.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="OPEC.IO.34">
                    <heading>2016-19</heading>
                    <p>Meeting in September 2016, in Algiers, Algeria, an extraordinary session of the Conference concluded a preliminary agreement (the `Algiers Accord’) to lower production levels to 32.5m.-33.0m. b/d. Ministers determined to establish a High Level Committee to analyse and make recommendations on the implementation of OPEC production levels. The Committee was also to be tasked with developing a framework of high-level consultations between OPEC and non-OPEC oil-producing states, to identify risks and recommend proactive measures aimed at balancing the oil market on a sustainable basis. In November the OPEC Conference agreed to limit production output to 32.5m. b/d for an initial six-month period from 1 January 2017. Saudi Arabia undertook the largest production cut, of some 486,000 b/d, while Iraq agreed a 210,000 b/d reduction, the UAE 139,000 b/d and Kuwait 131,000 b/d. It was agreed that Iran should freeze its production at the current rate of output; Libya and Nigeria were exempted from the agreement having been affected by conflict and other limitations on production. Indonesia, however, announced that it would suspend its membership of OPEC rather than comply with the new production restrictions.</p>
                    <p>A meeting held in December 2016 of OPEC and 11 non-OPEC oil producing states (Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Brunei, Equatorial Guinea, Kazakhstan, Malaysia, Mexico, Oman, Russia, South Sudan and Sudan, together styled `OPEC+’) issued a Declaration of Cooperation (DoC) on accelerating the rebalancing of the oil market by achieving—for an initial period of six months starting on 1 January 2017, dependant on the status of supply and demand, global inventories, and OPEC’s compliance with the new output limits—a collective adjustment downwards in production by some 600,000 b/d (Russia agreed to a gradual reduction to a total of 300,000 b/d). A Joint Ministerial Monitoring Committee (JMMC), comprising representatives of three OPEC member states (Algeria, Kuwait and Venezuela) and of two non-member states (Russia and Oman) was established in January to oversee the implementation of the DoC. At the 173rd session of the Conference, held on 30 November, ministers agreed to maintain the production limits in a new agreement to cover the period 1 January-31 December 2018. A new DoC was also signed by non-member states in November 2017. In May 2018 the JMMC reported that OPEC and non-OPEC producers had achieved in February a level of 152% conformity with their production commitments (the highest to date).</p>
                    <p>In December 2018 OPEC members agreed to reduce production by 800,000 b/d, while non-member co-operating states agreed to a 400,000 b/d reduction over a six-month period commencing on 1 January 2019. Iran was permitted an exemption from the new arrangements; Venezuela and Libya remained exempt from the reduction commitments. The sixth OPEC/non-OPEC Ministerial Meeting (ONOMM), held in July 2019, concluded a Charter of Cooperation. In September attacks against two major Saudi Arabian oil facilities, which temporarily disabled normal production levels, prompted an increase at that time in the oil price. The seventh ONOMM and the 177th meeting of the OPEC Conference were convened in December. An additional reduction in output of 500,000 b/d was agreed, with effect from 1 January 2020.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="OPEC.IO.36">
                    <heading>2020-24</heading>
                    <p>Meeting on 5 March 2020, in Vienna, an extraordinary session of the OPEC Conference noted that the unprecedented ongoing global crisis relating to COVID-19 was adversely impacting demand for petroleum and economic growth forecasts. Accordingly, the Conference recommended that the ONOMM should extend until the end of 2020 the adjustment levels agreed at the previous joint meeting, as well as implementing on a temporary basis until June a further downwards adjustment of 1.5m. b/d, in order to boost oil prices—with OPEC producers’ output to be reduced by 1m.&#160;b/d and that of the non-OPEC members participating in the DoC by 0.5m. b/d. However, at the ONOMM, held on the following day, Russia refused to implement the recommended cut in production. Saudi Arabia responded immediately by almost halving its official selling prices for April (to US&#8201;$8, from $14), with a view to boosting its market share and placing pressure on Russia. The failure of the co-operative process prompted an immediate slump in oil prices—the sharpest drop since September 2001. The ninth ONOMM, held in early April 2020 in a virtual format, proposed a series of output reductions. Using crude oil production as at October 2018 as the baseline (except for Russia and Saudi Arabia, which were to use a baseline of 11m. b/d) participating states would be required to reduce overall output by nearly 10m. b/d (about one-tenth of the global supply) during the period 1 May-30 June 2020, by 8m. b/d from 1 July-31 December, and then by 6m. from 1 January 2021-30 April 2022. The level of the reduction in production, however, was contested by Mexico. Following a compromise, under which Mexico would be required, exceptionally, to reduce output at a lower level, full agreement on the collective cuts—which, it was hoped, would stabilize the oil markets—was finalized on 12 April at a 10th ONOMM. In June the OPEC Conference observed that adjustments to petroleum output achieved in May, alongside the gradual loosening of lockdown measures worldwide and accompanying resumption of economic movement, had prompted a tentative recovery and increase in stability in the global oil market. The OPEC member states reconfirmed the arrangements made under the 12 April agreement and designated its full and timely implementation as inviolable; decided that countries that failed to reach full conformity with the agreement during May and June should compensate for their underperformance subsequently; and determined that the first phase of the output adjustments should be extended by a further month, through to 31 July.</p>
                    <p>The 11th ONOMM, held in June 2020, welcomed Ecuador, Indonesia and Trinidad and Tobago as observers and subscribed to the outcome commitments of the 10th joint ministerial meeting. A planned celebration to mark the 60th anniversary of the foundation of OPEC, to have been hosted by Iraq in September, was postponed in view of the COVID-19 situation. In November the OPEC Secretary-General condemned a recent terrorist attack perpetrated against a petroleum production distribution facility in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. In early December the 12th ONOMM, held after a brief 180th session of the OPEC Conference, welcomed an overall positive and constructive response in achieving conformity levels. It observed, however, that the widespread re-imposition of strict measures to contain the pandemic crisis would continue to impact adversely the global economy and oil demand recovery. A further voluntary adjustment in production, to 7.2m. b/d, was agreed, to take effect on 1 January 2021. It was also agreed that monthly ONOMMs would be convened from January, in order to review ongoing market conditions and potentially to make gradual monthly adjustments. In March 2021 the 14th ONOMM welcomed a significant voluntary additional reduction in supply effected by Saudi Arabia on 1 February, with the aim of supporting market stability.</p>
                    <p>The cancellation in early July 2021 of the 18th ONOMM was attributed to rising tensions over the means of calculating individual production targets, and also, reportedly, to the increasing dissatisfaction of some major oil producers (notably the UAE) with continuing restrictions on output, against a background of improving oil demand and rising prices. Eventually the 19th meeting, concluded on 18 July, reached agreement on an upwards monthly production adjustment: an initial increase of 0.4m. b/d was to be introduced in August, and this was to rise steadily each month to 2m. b/d later in the year—pending the planned restoration of pre-COVID-19 levels of production by 31 December 2022.</p>
                    <p>
          The 26th ONOMM was held in early March 2022 against the background of Russia’s recent military invasion of Ukraine, and the consequent imposition of significant global economic sanctions against Russia. Prior to the meeting Saudi Arabia had reaffirmed commitment to Russia’s inclusion in the OPEC+ format. On 1 March the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="IEA.IO.CASEE">International Energy Agency (IEA)</xr>
           had, in response to the Ukraine crisis, determined to release 60m. barrels of petroleum from its strategic reserves. The ONOMM resolved to maintain the existing monthly production adjustment, asserting that the current price volatility was a result of geopolitical developments and not changes in market fundamentals. An extraordinary meeting of the Conference held on 31 March decided henceforth to use Wood Mackenzie and Rystad Energy (research and business intelligence consultancies) as secondary sources for assessing OPEC member states’ crude oil production—replacing the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="IEA.IO.CASEE">IEA,</xr>
           which, with the USA, had urged the OPEC member states to raise output to calm the increase in prices. The 27th session of the ONOMM, also held at that time, reaffirmed the decision of its 19th meeting (in July 2021) that the baseline for calculating adjustments for several countries would be revised upwards with effect from 1 May 2022, and determined to raise overall monthly production by 0.432 b/d from that time. The ONOMM reiterated that geopolitical developments were the cause of present market volatility. In early June the 29th ONOMM extended the period for compensating for previous underperformance in meeting conformity criteria until 31 December (this having been scheduled to expire on 30 June). An increase in production of 100,000 b/d in September was agreed at the 31st ONOMM in early August. In the following month the 32nd ONOMM noted escalated market volatility, and announced that the 100,000 b/d increase would be reversed in October. The 33rd ONOMM, convened in early October, determined to adjust downward overall production by 2m. b/d (from the August 2022 production levels) at the start of November. The decision, which the OPEC Secretary-General stated aimed to sustain oil prices and a secure energy market in the face of a global economic slowdown, was criticized by the US Administration and other governments as inflationary and counter to their efforts to restrict Russian energy revenue. A statement issued at the conclusion of the 34th ONOMM, held in early December, reiterated that the decision had been a proactive one which had stabilized global markets. Meeting at the beginning of April 2023 the JMMC noted ongoing voluntary downwards production adjustments totalling 1.66m. b/d that, against a background of falling prices, were aimed at supporting the stability of the oil market. At the beginning of June the 35th ONOMM agreed a formal downwards adjustment of overall production, by 1.4m. b/d, to be implemented during 1 January 2024-31 December. In late November the 36th ONOMM agreed on additional voluntary reductions in output of 2.2m. b/d, to be reviewed after three months, in order to stabilize prices. The meeting invited Brazil to join the OPEC+ format, with effect from January 2024. In late December 2023 Angola, which had objected to pressure to cut production, announced its intention to withdraw from OPEC with effect from 1 January 2024.
        </p>
                    <p>
          
          An extension of the voluntary reductions in output into the second quarter of the year was announced in early March 2024. The 37th ONOMM meeting, hosted by Saudi Arabia in a hybrid format in early June, agreed on a range of measures to extend reduced production outputs in order to support market stability: the DoC production levels were to be extended until the end of 2025 (with the exception of the UAE, permitted to increase production by 300,000 b/d), as were the voluntary reductions agreed in April 2023; the additional voluntary reductions agreed in November were to be extended until September 2024 and then phased out gradually over a period until September 2025.
        </p>
                    <!--~ vi.23 - S Arabia reportedly requires a price of at least $80 to balance its budget-->
               </p-group>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="OPEC.IO.002" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Energy Dialogues and Research</heading>
               <p>
        In March 2010 OPEC, the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IEA.IO.CASEE">IEA</xr>
         and the IEF agreed to greater co-operation and a wider joint programme of work. In February 2023 OPEC, the IEA and the IEF convened the 13th annual Joint Symposium on Energy Outlooks, in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. The trilateral OPEC-IEA-IEF co-operation also organizes a dialogue on Physical and Financial Energy Market Interactions, comprising a series of high-level joint workshops and technical meetings. With the IEA and other partners OPEC participates in the Joint Oil/Organisations Data Initiative (JODI), which aims to improve the transparency of data on gas and petroleum production. In October 2019 the OPEC Secretary-General and his counterpart from the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="OTHER.COMMOD.IO.1">Gas Exporting Countries Forum (GECF)</xr>
         signed a Memorandum of Understanding on future co-operation between the respective organizations. The fourth High-Level Meeting of the OPEC-GECF Energy Dialogue was held in December 2023.
      </p>
               <p usage="edio">Formal ministerial meetings of the European Union-OPEC Energy Dialogue have taken place since June 2005 (the 14th: in October 2020), with the aim of exchanging views on energy issues of common interest, including petroleum market developments, and thus contributing to stability, transparency and predictability in the market.</p>
               <p>A formal Energy Dialogue with Russia was established in December 2005, providing for regular ministerial meetings, together with technical exchanges, seminars and joint research, on such subjects as petroleum market developments and prospects, data flow, investments across the supply chain, and energy policies. The eighth meeting of the Dialogue was held in October 2021. From December 2016 Russia participated in the OPEC+ format (q.v.). A formal OPEC-India Energy Dialogue was inaugurated in December 2015; its sixth meeting was held in November 2023.</p>
               <!--~ OPEC Russia working group -->
               <p>In December 2005 an official dialogue was inaugurated between OPEC and China, with the aim of exchanging views on energy issues, particularly security of supply and demand, through annual ministerial meetings, technical exchanges and energy roundtables. The Second High-level Meeting of the OPEC-China Energy Dialogue, held in December 2017, agreed to hold regular joint gatherings of technical experts. The seventh meeting of the Dialogue was hosted by OPEC, in Vienna, in March 2024.</p>
               <p>The third high-level OPEC-Africa Energy Dialogue was convened in February 2024, in Cairo, Egypt, with participation by the African Union, African Petroleum Producers’ Organization, and African Refiners and Distributors Association. (The first high-level Dialogue had taken place in June 2021.)</p>
               <p>Since 2001 OPEC has organized occasional high-level international seminars, with participation by government ministers, oil company executives, academics, representatives of international organizations, and other specialists; the eighth was convened in July 2023, in Vienna.</p>
               <p>The OPEC Academy, established in 2018, offers petroleum industry-related courses, training, lectures and fellowship programmes, both online and at OPEC headquarters. In September 2023 the OPEC Academy and City of Vienna organized the third annual edition of a joint Vienna Energy Scholar Programme.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="OPEC.IO.003" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Environmental Concerns</heading>
               <p>In November 2007 the third meeting of OPEC heads of state and of government acknowledged the challenge of climate change, but emphasized the continuing need for stable petroleum supplies to support global economic growth and development. They urged that policies to combat climate change should be balanced, taking into account their impact on developing countries, including countries heavily dependent on the production and export of fossil fuels. The meeting stressed the importance of cleaner and more efficient petroleum technologies, and the development of technologies such as carbon capture and storage. In June 2016 OPEC ministers declared their support for the Paris Agreement concluded at the 21st Conference of the Parties (COP) to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), held in December 2015.</p>
               <p>
        The 16th edition of OPEC’s annual 
        <publ-name>World Oil Outlook,</publ-name>
         issued in October 2022, forecast that demand for global primary energy would increase by 23% by 2045 and that oil would account for 29% of global energy sources in that year. Addressing the 27th UNFCCC COP, in November 2022, the OPEC Secretary-General noted that petroleum would remain part of the `global energy mix’, and that the oil industry’s expertise and resources could support the development of efficient technological means of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
      </p>
               <p>In September 2023 the President of the International Court of Justice authorized OPEC’s participation (at OPEC’s own request) in ongoing proceedings relating to an Advisory Opinion that had been requested by the UN General Assembly on Obligations of States in respect of Climate Change.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="OPEC.IO.127" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Finance</heading>
          <p id="OPEC.IO.111">OPEC has an annual budget of about €25m.</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="OPEC.IO.128" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Publications</heading>
          <publ-list>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Annual Report</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Annual Statistical Bulletin</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Monthly Oil Market Report</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>OPEC Bulletin</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">monthly</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>OPEC Energy Review</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">quarterly</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>World Oil Outlook</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">annually</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <p id="OPEC.IO.112">Reports, information papers, press releases.</p>
          </publ-list>
     </int-org-section>
     <!--14.v.24: 5,024 words-->
</int-org-entry>