<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="PACIFIC.IO" id-root="pacific.io" iso="pacific.io" original-filename="wb02067.txt" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio fea"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>Pacific Community</org-entry-name>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">MAJOR NON-UN ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="fea">REGIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb edio fea">Pacific Community</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>95 Promenade Roger Laroque, BP D5, 98848 Nouméa, New Caledonia</verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <telephone alsofax="N">26-20-00</telephone>
               <fax>26-38-18</fax>
               <email>spc@spc.int</email>
               <internet>www.spc.int</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p id="PACIFIC.IO.3">In February 1947 the Governments of Australia, France, the Netherlands, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, and the USA signed the Canberra Agreement establishing the South Pacific Commission, which came into effect in July 1948. Island nations joined the Commission as full members as they gained independence. In October 1997 the 37th South Pacific Conference, agreed to rename the organization the Pacific Community, with effect from February 1998 (while retaining the acronym SPC). The Pacific Community serves a population of about 12.3m., spread over some 30m. sq km, more than 98% of which is ocean.</p>
          <int-org-section id="PACIFIC.IO.56" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Members</heading>
               <table-block-simple id="PACIFIC.IO.57" type="OTHER">
                    <table pgwide="NO" style="WITHOUT-RULES">
                         <tgroup cols="2">
                              <colspec colwidth="10cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="10cm" />
                              <tbody>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">American Samoa</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Northern Mariana Islands</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Australia</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Palau</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Cook Islands</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Papua New Guinea</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Fiji</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Pitcairn Islands</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">France</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Samoa</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">French Polynesia</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Solomon Islands</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Guam</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Tokelau</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Kiribati</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Tonga</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Marshall Islands</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Tuvalu</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Federated States of Micronesia</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">United Kingdom</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Nauru</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">USA</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">New Caledonia</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Vanuatu</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">New Zealand</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Wallis and Futuna Islands</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Niue</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   </row>
                              </tbody>
                         </tgroup>
                    </table>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">Note: The Netherlands and the UK, both founding signatories of the South Pacific Commission, withdrew from the organization in 1962 and 2004, respectively, when they relinquished territories in the Pacific. The UK rejoined the Community in December 2021. In August the European Union (EU) became SPC’s first Permanent Observer.</content-note>
               </table-block-simple>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="PACIFIC.IO.58" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <heading-note>April 2024</heading-note>
          <int-org-section id="PACIFIC.IO.59" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Conference of the Pacific Community</heading>
               <p id="PACIFIC.IO.32">The Conference is the governing body of the Community, composed of representatives of all member countries and territories. The main responsibil­ities of the Conference, which normally meets annually, are to determine major policy issues and to appoint the Director-General. The 13th Conference was convened in October 2023, in Nouméa.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="PACIFIC.IO.60" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Committee of Representatives of Governments and Administrations (CRGA)</heading>
               <p>The CRGA, which meets annually (54th gathering: November 2024), comprises representatives of all member states and territories, having equal voting rights. Its responsibilities include considering the work programme conducted by the secretariat, approving new policy directions for the organization presented by the secretariat or by member countries and territories; approving budgets; and making recommendations for the post of Director-General. The CRGA oversees sub-committees on the organization’s Strategic Plan; educational quality; and audit and risk.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="PACIFIC.IO.61" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Secretariat</heading>
               <p>The secretariat is headed by a Director-General, supported by two Deputy Directors-General. It services the Community, and provides research, information, technical advice, training and assistance to the Pacific region. It also organizes regional conferences and technical meetings. The secretariat comprises divisions and programmes encompassing: Climate Change and Environmental Sustainability; Educational Quality and Assessment; Fisheries, Aquaculture and Marine Ecosystems; Geoscience, Energy and Maritime; Human Rights and Social Development; Land Resources; Public Health; and Statistics for Development. It supports three integrated programmes: the Pacific Community Centre for Ocean Science; Pacific Data Hub; and the Regional Pacific Nationally Determined Contribution Hub.</p>
               <!--SEPPF-->
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="PACIFIC.IO.35" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Director-General</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Dr</title>
                                        <forename>Stuart</forename>
                                        <surname>Minchin</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Australia</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
                    <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Deputy Directors-General</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Maria</forename>
                                        <surname>Fuata</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Fiji</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Dr</title>
                                        <forename>Paula</forename>
                                        <surname>Vivili</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Tonga</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="PACIFIC.IO.OFFICES.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="edio fea">
               <heading usage="edio fea">Regional Offices</heading>
               <org-list>
                    <org-entry id="PACIFIC.IO.38.1.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="edio fea">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Melanesia Regional Office</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>POB 6248, Port Vila, Vanuatu, Federated States of Micronesia</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">7308046</telephone>
                              <email>miar@spc.int</email>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Dir</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Sarah</forename>
                                        <surname>Mecartney</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Vanuatu</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="PACIFIC.IO.38.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="edio fea">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Micronesia Regional Office</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>POB Q, One World Plaza, Suite 301, Kapwaresou St, Kolonia, Pohnpei 96941, Federated States of Micronesia</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">320-7523</telephone>
                              <email>spcmro@spc.int</email>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Dir</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>William</forename>
                                        <surname>Kostka</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Federated States of Micronesia</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="PACIFIC.IO.38.2.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="edio fea">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Polynesia Regional Office</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Nuku’alofa, Tonga</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>kuiniselanit@spc.int</email>
                         </address-block>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="PACIFIC.IO.38.2.2" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="edio fea">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Suva Regional Office</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Private Mail Bag, Suva, Fiji</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">337-0733</telephone>
                              <email>spc@spc.int</email>
                         </address-block>
                    </org-entry>
               </org-list>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="PACIFIC.IO.62" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Activities</heading>
          <!--small island states fund-->
          <p id="PACIFIC.IO.41" usage="edio fea">The 1999 Conference, held in Tahiti in December, adopted the Tahiti Nui Declaration, a mandate that detailed the operational policies and mechanisms of the Pacific Community, taking into account operational changes not covered by the founding Canberra Agreement. The Declaration was regarded as a `living document' that would be periodically revised to record subsequent modifications of operational policy: in 2024 a revised version, issued in 2011, was active.</p>
          <p>In November 2020 the CRGA determined to align all future SPC strategic planning with a long-term 2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific Continent that was an initiative of the Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat. In early December 2021 the 12th Conference adopted the Pacific Community Strategic Plan 2021+, covering the period 2022-31, with the following strategic goals: All Pacific people benefit from sustainable development; All Pacific communities and cultures are empowered and resilient; All Pacific people reach their full potential and live long and healthy lives; and One SPC delivers integrated programmes through streamlined services. Its key focus areas were: Resilience and Climate Action; Natural Resources and Biodiversity; Food Systems; Equity, education and social development; Sustainable Economies and Livelihoods; Planetary Health; and Transforming Institutional Effectiveness. To ensure that the plan was widely representative it was developed in consultation with input from youth and women, and incorporated terms from Pacific Indigenous languages, for example, kaitiakitanga (stewardship) and gida gaituvwa (unity).</p>
          <p>
      SPC has signed Memorandums of Understanding (MOUs) with partners including the 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.2442">World Health Organization</xr>
       (WHO), the Forum Fisheries Agency, the Melanesian Spearhead Group, the Pacific Islands Private Sector Organization, the EU, the South Pacific Regional Environment Programme (SPREP), the University of the South Pacific, the International Union for Conservation of Nature, and Pacific Tourism Organisation. Representatives of SPC and SPREP periodically convene meetings to develop regional technical co-operation and harmonization of work programmes. In January 2021 SPC and France concluded a partnership agreement under which collaboration was to be advanced during 2021-24 in four priority areas: public health, the ocean, climate change, and the sustainable management of natural resources.
    </p>
          <int-org-section id="IO.PACIFIC.COMM.001" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Climate Change and Environmental Sustainability</heading>
               <p>SPC aims to prevent risks to vulnerable Pacific Island countries and territories (PICTs) arising from the impacts of climate change—such as accelerated sea level rise, extreme meteorological events, and climate variability. SPC’s Climate Change and Environmental Sustainability Programme (CCES) provides strategic co-ordination and technical assistance in the design and implementation of climate change adaptation and mitigation projects, to enable PICTs to transition to low-carbon economies. The CCES contributed to the development of an SPC Climate Change Flagship Programme, which was being implemented during 2023-31, with the aim of strengthening collective action to achieve key objectives, such as enhanced climate resilience and mitigation and greater access to climate finance. In April 2023 New Zealand committed NZ$30m. in funding to the Flagship Programme.</p>
               <p>SPC maintains a Regional Pacific Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) Hub, through which it extends strategic support to Pacific Island Countries relating to the NDC pledges that they have made in the framework of the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change.</p>
               <p>A Framework for Resilient Development in the Pacific (FRDP), endorsed by Pacific leaders in September 2017, provides high level strategic guidance to regional stakeholders on addressing climate change and disaster risk management during the period 2017-30. Leaders also established the Pacific Resilience Partnership to support and co-ordinate the efforts of local, national and subregional organizations in implementing the FRDP. An inaugural Pacific Disaster Risk Reduction Ministers Meeting was convened in September 2022, in Nadi.</p>
               <p usage="fea">
        In order to facilitate the access of the PICTs to funding support offered in the context of REDD+ activities undertaken through the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.REDD.1">United Nations Collaborative Programme on Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation in Developing Countries</xr>
         (UN-REDD), a Pacific Regional REDD+ Policy Framework, developed by SPC, was endorsed in September 2012 by regional ministers responsible for agriculture and forestry.
      </p>
               <p>SPC and SPREP jointly conduct—in co-operation with the Kiwa biodiversity protection initiative of the Agence Française de Développement—a technical assistance programme focused on developing large regional projects that address climate change adaptation through nature-based solutions. SPC supported the inaugural Pacific Ecological Security Conference, which was held in October 2022 in Palau.</p>
               <p>In June 2019 the 49th Pacific Community Conference agreed to expand the Pacific Community Centre for Ocean Science—which had been endorsed in July 2017 by the 47th Conference, and focuses on ocean governance, management and observations. In September 2021 a new Regional Ocean Acidification Training Hub was inaugurated in Suva. An MOU on enhancing co-operation and ocean science data exchange was concluded in December between SPC and the Pacific Islands Ocean Observing System. SPC co-hosted a Blue Climate Summit that was convened in French Polynesia in May 2022, to address the acceleration of ocean-related solutions to climate change. In March 2023 SPC participated in Our Ocean Conference 2023 (the eighth of a series), hosted by Panama.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="PACIFIC.IO.101" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Geoscience, Energy and Maritime</heading>
               <p>The Geoscience, Energy and Maritime (GEM) division supports PICTs with the development of critical data, applied science, and technical solutions relevant to ongoing challenges. GEM programme areas include disaster and community resilience; ocean and maritime (promoting sustainable maritime transport and safe navigation, strengthened monitoring and prediction services, and improved ocean and maritime governance); and georesources and energy (focused on the development of a green economy and guided by the Framework for Action on Energy Security in the Pacific—FAESP, adopted by Pacific Island leaders in 2010, and by the FRDP).</p>
               <p>A Maritime Technology Cooperation Centre in the Pacific (MTCC-Pacific), under joint SPC/SPREP stewardship, was inaugurated in Fiji in December 2017. The Centre aimed to promote low-carbon maritime transport, as part of a global network of centres of excellence concerned with emissions reduction and climate change. In August 2018 SPC and SPREP agreed that a SPREP-based MTCC-Pacific project officer would be appointed, to enhance MTCC-Pacific’s direct access to expertise on environmental governance. In September 2019 a Regional Strategy for Pacific Women in Maritime (covering 2020-24) was initiated, which aimed to promote equal opportunities for women working in the maritime sector. In February 2024 SPC and the EU signed a funding agreement for the development of a Pacific Regional One Maritime Framework. This was to address ongoing priorities and challenges, as well as emerging issues related to safety, security, decarbonization, and access for remote communities.</p>
               <p>
        The Pacific Community promotes work on energy policy, planning, legislation and regulation; petroleum, including procurement, transport, storage and pricing mechanisms; renewable energy production; energy efficiency and conservation. It supports the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="OTHER.IO.FEA.116">Pacific Power Association,</xr>
         established in 1992 to facilitate co-operation among regional power utilities. In June 2016 the so-called SIDS DOCK Treaty (approved by the 2014 conference) entered into force. This aimed to connect the energy sector in SIDS with sustainable energy technologies, the global market for finance, and the US and EU carbon markets. A Pacific Centre for Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency (PCREEE) was inaugurated in April 2017 in Nuku`alofa, Tonga, as part of a UN-administered global network of regional sustainable energy centres; it commenced operations in August. In May 2023 the Fifth Pacific Regional Energy and Transport Ministers’ Meeting, held in a hybrid (part online) format from Port Vila, Vanuatu, on the theme `Accelerating Decarbonization in the Blue Pacific’, urged an effective transition away from reliance on fossil fuels, and proposed the creation of a Pacific Energy Commissioner to accelerate region-wide access to a regular power supply (two-thirds of the region’s population was reported at that time to lack this). A Framework for Energy Security and Resilience in the Pacific that was being implemented during 2021-30 had the following focal areas: energy policy, planning and capacity development; energy sector finance and co-operation; sustainable electric power development; low carbon transport energy; improved energy efficiency; and petroleum and other liquid fuel services.
      </p>
               <p usage="fea">
        SPC had provided technical assistance to the Cook Islands, Fiji, Nauru, Tonga and Tuvalu towards the development of instruments aimed at ensuring the appropriate management of deep sea mineral (DSM) resources, should these be exploited in future. In July 2015 SPC signed an MOU with the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="ISA.IO">International Seabed Authority</xr>
         in order to strengthen collaboration and to support the interests of Pacific Island states undertaking DSM activities.
      </p>
               <p>In April 2011 SPC ministers adopted a Framework for Action on Transport Services to support all PICTs to provide regular, safe and affordable air and sea transport services.</p>
               <!-- ~ 3WCDRR Pacific Meteorological Council -->
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="PACIFIC.IO.64" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Fisheries, Aquaculture and Marine Ecosystems</heading>
               <p>The Fisheries, Aquaculture and Marine Ecosystems (FAME) division aims to support and co-ordinate the sustainable development and management of inshore fisheries resources in the region, to undertake scientific research in order to provide member governments with relevant information for the sustainable development and management of tuna and billfish resources in and adjacent to the South Pacific region, and to provide data and analytical services to national fisheries departments. SPC maintains a FAME Digital Library. The principal programmes under FAME are the Coastal Fisheries Pro­gramme (CFP) and the Oceanic Fisheries Pro­gramme (OFP). The development and advisory activities of the CFP are focused within the near territorial and archipelagic waters of the PICTs. The CFP is divided into the following sections: coastal fisheries science and management; nearshore fisheries development; and aquaculture. In contrast to the CFP, the OFP focuses its activities within 200-mile exclusive economic zones and surrounding waters, and is mandated to equip the PICTs with the necessary scientific information and advice for rationally managing and exploiting the regional resources of tuna, billfish and related species. The OFP consists of the following four sections: fisheries monitoring; ecosystem monitoring and analyses; stock assessment; and data management. The OFP contrib­uted research and statistical information for the formulation of the Convention for the Conservation and Management of Highly Migratory Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific, which entered into force in June 2004 and aims to establish a regime for the sustainable management of tuna reserves. (The principal tuna species from the region used by industrial fisheries are skipjack, yellowfin, bigeye and albacore.) In October 2022 the fifth SPC Regional Technical Meeting on Coastal Fisheries and Aquaculture addressed the development of a regional aquaculture strategy and of national aquatic biosecurity plans. In February 2023 a New Zealand-funded SPC-led regional Climate Science for Ensuring Pacific Access initiative was announced, which was to provide climate change adaptation support to Pacific countries’ tuna fisheries.</p>
               <p usage="edio">The OFP organizes regular tuna Stock Assessment Workshops with participation by senior regional fishery officers. Under its Tuna Tagging Programme, the OFP releases tagged tuna into the Pacific Ocean as a means of collecting data on tuna movements and health. SPC has implemented joint projects with the WorldFish Center (the International Centre for Living Aquatic Resources Management—ICLARM).</p>
               <p>SPC administers the Pacific Island Aquaculture Network, a forum for promoting regional aquaculture development. In July 2020 SPC and the organization Aquaculture Without Frontiers (AwF) concluded a Special Services Agreement, under which AwF was to extend business mentoring assistance to selected Pacific aquaculture enterprises (including women-led businesses).</p>
               <p>In September 2018 SPC, SPREP, the University of the South Pacific and the Pacific Islands Forum Fisheries Agency signed an agreement with the EU establishing a Pacific-EU Marine Partnership Programme (PEUMP). The Programme aimed to enhance sound ocean governance and sustainable management in the Pacific region, and had the following focal areas: fisheries development; coastal resources and livelihoods; combating illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing; ecosystem-based management; biodiversity conservation; and capacity building at national and community level. In June 2020, in the context of the PEUMP, SPC and the Pacific Islands Forum Fisheries Agency concluded an agreement covering the exchange of maritime boundaries data.</p>
               <p>In February 2018 SPC and the New Zealand Government initiated a Pacific Fisheries Leadership Programme (PFLP), to enhance skills in the regional fisheries sector.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="PACIFIC.IO.63" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Land Resources</heading>
               <p>The activities of the Land Resources Division (LRD) focus on climate change adaptation; facilitating and increasing trade in agricultural commodities; supporting agricultural value chains; food and nutritional security; land use management; and supporting the participation of youth in agriculture. It supports the advancement of agricultural science and technology, and the enhancement of policy analysis capabilities.</p>
               <p>SPC hosts the Centre for Pacific Crops and Trees (CePaCT), which assists the PICTs in efforts to conserve and access regional genetic resources, and has a particular focus on taro roots (a traditional staple in the region). In 2001 the Pacific Community endorsed the Pacific Agricultural Plant Genetic Resources Network, which is implemented by the LRD and other partners. A Pacific Island Tree Seed Centre was opened in September 2013, in Suva, and in September 2017 a Pacific Agricultural Plant Genetic Resources Network was formally established. During 2020-24 SPC was implementing a New Zealand-funded Pacific Seeds for Life (PS4L) project, which aimed to improve food and nutrition security in Fiji, Kiribati, Samoa, Tonga, Tuvalu and Vanuatu. In October 2020 SPC inaugurated a plant health laboratory, in Suva, with a view to enhancing regional biosecurity. An updated version of SPC’s online Pacific Soils Portal (collating knowledge on soils and soil health) was introduced in June 2021.</p>
               <p usage="edio fea">The LRD co-ordinates the development of organic agriculture in the Pacific region. In 2008 it adopted the Pacific Organic Standard, and it supports the Pacific Organic and Ethical Trade Community (POETCom), which was launched in 2009 to manage Pacific organic certification. SPC maintains a web portal on organic agriculture: `Organic Pasifika’. In October 2021 POETCom and the LRD initiated the Intercontinental Network of Organic Farmer Organizations (INOFO) Oceania Pasifika platform.</p>
               <p>The Pacific Animal Health Information System provides data on regional livestock numbers and the regional status of animal diseases, and the Pacific Islands Pest List Database provides a register of regional agriculture, forestry and environmental pests. </p>
               <p>An EU-funded online Pacific Agricultural Information System and regional Agriculture Policy Bank were established in August 2017.</p>
               <p>The eighth Regional Meeting of the Pacific Heads of Agriculture and Forestry Services and third joint Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN (FAO)-SPC ministerial meeting were convened in March 2023.</p>
               <p>An SPC Digital Earth Pacific project was initiated in 2021 to support the development of a comprehensive and open earth observation system.</p>
               <p usage="fea">Following the January 2022 Hunga-Tonga-Hunga-Ha'apai eruption in Tonga LRD experts on agriculture and soil issued a series of fact sheets to support the emergency response and rehabilitation of crop and livestock farmers, to help them rebuild their livelihoods.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-SPC.00001" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Public Health</heading>
               <p>The Public Health Division aims to implement health promotion programmes; to assist regional authorities to strength­en health information systems and to promote the use of new technology for health information development and disease control; to promote efficient health services management; and to help all Pacific Islanders to attain a level of health and quality of life that will enable them to contribute to the development of their communities. The three main areas of focus of the Division are NCDs (such as heart disease, cerebrovascular disease and diabetes); communicable diseases (such as COVID-19, HIV/AIDS, other sexually transmitted infections—STIs, tuberculosis—TB, and vector-borne dis­eases such as malaria and dengue fever); and public health policy. A Healthy Pacific Lifestyle section aims to assist member countries to improve and sustain health, in particular through advice on nutrition, physical activity and the damaging effects of alcohol and tobacco. The Public Health Surveillance and Communicable Disease Control section is the focal point of the Pacific Public Health Surveillance Network (PPHSN), a regional framework established in 1996 jointly by SPC and WHO.</p>
               <p usage="fea">The PPHSN includes the Pacific Syndromic Surveillance System; the Pacific Infection Control Network (PICNet); EpiNet, comprising multi-disciplinary teams that are responsible for outbreak and health emergency preparedness and response; LabNet, which co-ordinates laboratory services; PacNet, providing alerts and rapid communication; and the Strengthening Health Interventions in the Pacific-Data for Decision Making capacity building programme.</p>
               <p>From early 2020, through the PPHSN, SPC closely monitored the spread of the COVID-19 contagion, supported infection prevention and control measures, facilitated arrangements for testing with laboratories in Australia, New Zealand, New Caledonia and French Polynesia, and extended risk communication support to the PICTs. SPC aimed to ensure an adequate regional supply of medical equipment, and supported the Pacific Humanitarian Pathway on COVID-19 (PHP-C), initiated in April by the Pacific Islands Forum as a mechanism to expedite a collective regional response to the COVID-19 emergency. In November the Agence Française de Développement extended €2m. in emergency financial support to enhance the epidemic surveillance and response capacity of the PPHSN, in respect of COVID-19, other emerging diseases, and dengue fever.</p>
               <p>SPC works to prevent AIDS and STIs among young people through peer education and awareness. In March 2007 the Pacific Community launched the Oceania Society for Sexual Health and HIV Medicine, a Pacific network aimed at ensuring access to best practice prevention, treatment, care and support services in the area of sexual health and HIV/AIDS. SPC and WHO jointly organize regular meetings aimed at strengthening TB control in the region.</p>
               <p>In September 2014 the Third International Conference on Small Island Developing States initiated a Pacific NCD Partnership for a Multi-sector Approach to Prevent and Control NCDs. A Pacific Monitoring Alliance for NCD Action (MANA) monitors progress in reducing NCDs throughout the region, for example through tailored regulatory, policy and tax measures. In June 2016 SPC, with the Government of Tonga, organized the inaugural Pacific NCD Summit.</p>
               <p>In September 2017 SPC and the Commonwealth Secretariat concluded an MOU to strengthen co-operation in the health sector, including on combating NCDs and in the attainment of universal health coverage. The 13th meeting of SPC ministers responsible for health, convened in August 2019, endorsed a roadmap that was to guide a collective response to climate-related threats, including to food security, the availability of safe drinking water, the health infrastructure, and secure shelter.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="PACIFIC.IO.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Human Rights and Social Development</heading>
               <p>
        In mid-2020 a set of Pacific Principles of Practice was adopted, to guide the effective implementation of human rights.&#160;SPC’s Social Development programme and Regional Rights Resource Team were merged in September, with the aim of enhancing the technical assistance extended by SPC in the areas of social inclusion, human rights, gender equality, and youth and cultural development. In July 2021 SPC issued the 
        <publ-name>Pacific Human Rights Situational Analysis Report 2020,</publ-name>
         which analysed the human rights environment of Australia, New Zealand and 14 PICTs during the period June 2016-December 2019, and also the human rights impacts in 2020 of the COVID-19 pandemic.
      </p>
               <p>The Pacific Women's Bureau (PWB) aims to promote the social, economic and cultural advancement of women in the region by assisting governments and regional organizations to include women in the development planning process. The PWB also provides technical and advisory services, advocacy and man­agement support training to groups concerned with women in development and gender and development, and administers the Pacific Women's Information Network.</p>
               <p>SPC, the Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat and UN Women were jointly to implement the Pacific Partnership to End Violence Against Women and Girls, which was initiated in March 2018. In July 2019 an SPC Women in Sustainable Development Program was launched, with an initial focus on science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). A Pacific Youth Development Framework was being implemented during 2014-23.</p>
               <p>SPC works to preserve and promote the cultural heritage of the Pacific Islands. It supports the training of librarians, archivists and researchers and promotes instruction in local languages, history and art at schools in the PICTs. SPC acts as the secretariat of the Council of Pacific Arts, which organizes the Festival of Pacific Arts, normally on a four-yearly basis. The 13th Festival was scheduled to be held in June 2024, in Honolulu, Hawaii (USA). A Pacific Traditional Leaders Forum was to be convened concurrently. In April 2022 Community ministers responsible for culture endorsed a Pacific Regional Culture Strategy, covering the period 2022-32.</p>
               <!--Pacific Games - July 2019 Pacific Games Council -->
               <p>In April 2011 SPC signed an agreement with the International Telecommunications Union to enhance co-operation between the two organizations and facilitate the implementation of ICT and cyber security programmes throughout the region. In May 2022, to advance digitalization, SPC and the EU initiated a project titled `Supporting the Pacific Close the Digital Divides in Response to COVID-19’.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="PACIFIC.IO.201" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Education Quality and Assessment</heading>
               <p>SPC implements an Educational Quality and Assessment Programme (EQAP). It also manages the Pacific Islands Literacy and Numeracy Assessment (PILNA), the Pacific Benchmarking for Educational Results (PaBER) project, and the Pacific Register of Qualifications and Standards (PRQS). EQAP is an implementing agency of the Pacific Regional Education Framework (PacREF), which was adopted in May 2018 by Pacific Islands Forum ministers responsible for education, with a view to advancing high-quality education in the region over the period 2018-30. Since 2004 EQAP has administered the South Pacific Form Seven Certificate (SPFSC) programme, a prerequisite for entering higher education. EQAP moved the SPFSC programme onto an online platform from 2020, following the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic.</p>
               <p>A Pacific Community Media Centre provides media training, technical assistance and production materials, and has produced a series of `The Pacific Way’ information videos.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-SPC.000002" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Statistics for Development</heading>
               <p>The Statistics for Development programme assists governments and administrations in the region to provide effective and efficient national statistical services. It provides statistical information and data, advice and training, and undertakes demographic surveys. A Regional Meeting of Heads of Statistics facilitates the integration and co-ordination of statistical services throughout the region. A World Bank Statistical Innovation and Capacity Building in Pacific Islands project, initiated in February 2020, aimed to develop the accessibility and sustainability of SPC’s statistical systems. In August the PICTs were urged by the fifth biennial meeting of the advisory Pacific Geospatial and Surveying Council to support the development and implementation of the UN’s Integrated Geospatial Information Network. An online Pacific Data Hub (PDH-Stat) resource was launched in December. SPC also maintains a Data Food Systems Portal.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="PACIFIC.IO.66" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Finance</heading>
          <p id="PACIFIC.IO.54">The Pacific Community’s proposed annual budget for 2023 totalled €114.5m., to be funded mainly by Community member states, with some international donor funding.</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="PACIFIC.IO.67" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Publications</heading>
          <publ-list>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Annual Report</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Climate Change and Disaster Risk Newsletter</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">quarterly</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Fisheries Newsletter</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">quarterly</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Pacific Human Rights Situational Analysis Report</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Pacific Maritime Watch</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Report of the Conference of the Pacific Community</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>SPC Pocket Statistical Summary</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">annually</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Women in Fisheries Information Bulletin</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
          </publ-list>
          <p id="PACIFIC.IO.55">Technical publications, statistical bulletins, fisheries status reports, advisory leaflets and reports.</p>
     </int-org-section>
</int-org-entry>