<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="INT-ORG_UN-PEACE.1" id-root="int-org_un-peace.1" iso="int-org_un-peace.1" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee ass mena sasia eerca"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>United Nations Peacekeeping</org-entry-name>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">UNITED NATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee sacac ass mena sasia fea eerca">REGIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb">United Nations (Other Bodies)</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="edio">United Nations Peacekeeping</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">The United Nations in Central and South-Eastern Europe</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="sacac">The United Nations in South America, Central America and the Caribbean</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ass">The United Nations in Africa South of the Sahara</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="mena">The United Nations in the Middle East and North Africa</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="sasia">The United Nations in South Asia</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="fea">The United Nations in the Far East and Australasia</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="eerca">The United Nations in Eastern Europe, Russia and Central Asia</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>
          Department of Peace Operations, Room S-3727
          <sc>B</sc>
          , United Nations, New York, NY 10017, USA
        </verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <telephone alsofax="N">(212) 963-8077</telephone>
               <fax>(212) 963-9222</fax>
               <internet>peacekeeping.un.org</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p id="IO-UNPEACE.1">The UN undertakes impartial peacekeeping operations (deploying either peacekeeping forces or observer missions), with the consent of the principal parties involved, and without prejudice to their positions or claims, in order to maintain international peace and security and to facilitate the search for political settlements through peaceful means. Each peacekeeping operation is established with a specific mandate, which requires periodic review by the UN Security Council.</p>
          <p>Peacekeeping forces—composed of contingents of military personnel, experts and other civilian staff, made available by member states—assist in preventing the recurrence of fighting, restoring and maintaining peace, and promoting a return to normal conditions. To this end, they are authorized, as necessary, to undertake negotiations, persuasion, observation and fact-finding. They conduct patrols and interpose physically between the opposing parties. Peacekeeping forces are permitted to use their weapons only in self-defence. Military observer missions—comprising officers who are made available by member states—monitor and report to the UN Secretary-General on the maintenance of a ceasefire.</p>
          <p>The Department of Peace Operations, which replaced the Department of Peacekeeping Operations on 1 January 2019, provides political support and executive direction. It incorporates an Office for the Rule of Law and Security Institutions, an Office of Military Affairs, and a Policy, Evaluation and Training Division. A regional structure of oversight is shared with the Department of Political and Peacebuilding Affairs.</p>
          <p>The UN's peacekeeping forces and observer missions are financed, in most cases, by assessed contributions from member states. The approved budget for peacekeeping operations during 1 July 2023-30 June 2024 totalled US&#8201;$6,053m. At 30 September 2023 outstanding assessed contributions to the peacekeeping budget amounted to $2,768m. Many countries also voluntarily, on a non-reimbursable basis, offer additional resources to operations, such as material items and transportation.</p>
          <p usage="ewyb edio">In 2022-24 the three largest providers of assessed contributions to UN peacekeeping operations were the USA (which accounted for 26.9%), the People’s Republic of China (18.7%) and Japan (8.0%).</p>
          <p usage="ewyb edio">Some US $387.8m. was allocated in general support for peacekeeping operations over the period June 2023-July 2024. The UN Global Services Centre, comprising a logistics base in Brindisi, Italy and an information and communications technology unit in Valencia, Spain, provides technical support to individual operations. All missions are assisted by a team of local and international civilian personnel. UN Volunteers are also deployed to most missions. There is also, for Africa, a Regional Services Centre in Entebbe (Uganda).</p>
          <p usage="ass">A Regional Services Centre in Entebbe (Uganda) provides logistical, administrative and communications support to missions in Africa.</p>
          <p>By April 2024 the UN had deployed a total of 71 peacekeeping operations, of which 13 were authorized during the period 1948-88 and 58 since 1988. As at 30 November 2023 121 countries were contributing 66,839 uniformed personnel, of whom 56,875 were troops, 1,770 were staff officers, 7,007 police officers, and 1,187 were military observers. By that time 1,665 people had died while serving in the ongoing UN peacekeeping and political missions. As at April 2024 11 operations were ongoing.</p>
          <!--UN Military Experts on Mission - UNMEM UN Police -->
          <p id="IO-UN.1536" usage="ewyb edio sasia">
      In 2024 the Department was also directly supporting the 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.PB.0002">UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan</xr>
      , a political and peacebuilding mission that was established in March 2002.
    </p>
          <p usage="ewyb edio fea">On 1 October 2023 the UN Security Council authorized the deployment of a multinational security force, to be led by Kenya, to help counter escalating gang violence in Haiti.</p>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-entry id="SL607578" iso="SL607578" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio mena">
          <int-org-entry-head>
               <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                    <org-entry-name>United Nations Disengagement Observer Force</org-entry-name>
                    <abbr>UNDOF</abbr>
               </int-org-name-group>
          </int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-block>
               <address-block>
                    <address type="POSTAL">
                         <verbatim-address>Camp Faouar, Syrian Arab Republic (headquarters); Camp Ziouani, Israel (operational base)</verbatim-address>
                    </address>
               </address-block>
               <!--undof.unmissions.org relocated from Camp Faouar, Syria in Sept. 2014-->
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="IO-UN.1538" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Head of Mission and Force Commander</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Maj.-Gen.</title>
                                        <forename> Nirmal</forename>
                                        <surname>Kumar Thapa</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Nepal</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Establishment and Mandate</heading>
                    <p>UNDOF was established by UN Security Council Resolution 350 in May 1974, following the signature of an Agreement on Disengagement of Forces between Israel and the Syrian Arab Republic. The initial task of the mission was to take over territory evacuated in stages by the Israeli troops, in accordance with the disengagement agreement, to hand over territory to Syrian troops, and to establish an area of separation on the Golan Heights. Indirect peace talks between Israel and Syria on reaching a comprehensive peace agreement providing for the withdrawal of the Israeli presence from the Golan Heights were initiated in May 2008, but were discontinued in December. Through fixed positions and patrols UNDOF monitors the `area of separation’, which stretches for more than 75&#160;km in length and in breadth measures from around 10 km at its widest (in the centre) to just 200&#160;m (in the extreme south). On either side of the area of separation there is an area of limitation, divided into three zones. UNDOF undertakes inspections of the areas of limited armaments and forces; uses its best efforts to maintain the ceasefire; conducts demining activities; and implements humanitarian activities (including facilitating the transfer of prisoners and war dead).</p>
                    <p>UNDOF reports on and protests to all parties against all violations of the Agreement on Disengagement of Forces—such as firing across ceasefire lines and into the area of separation, and crossings over the ceasefire lines made by drones, aircraft, military vehicles, individuals, and including all incidents of conflict spillover and retaliatory fire. The mission constantly urges the exercise of restraint and caution against miscalculations that might escalate the situation on the ground. The Israeli and Syrian sides of UNDOF’s area of operations are referred to, respectively, as the `Alpha’ and `Bravo’ sides. UNDOF is supported by military observers of the UN Truce Supervision Organ­ization (UNTSO) Observer Group Golan (OGG), which is deployed, under the operational control of UNDOF, in two divisions to two areas: OGG-Damascus and OGG-Tiberias. It focuses on continuous static observation from nine fixed observation points in the area of separation, and on investigations and situational analysis.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Activities</heading>
                    <p>From 2011, as Syria descended into civil war, UNDOF enhanced measures to fortify its positions and to protect its area of operations. In June 2013 the UN Security Council expressed concern that military activities impinging upon the area of separation had the potential to escalate tensions between Israel and Syria, and requested the UN Secretary-General to ensure that UNDOF was sufficiently equipped to fulfil its mandate safely. From July the OGG set up several temporary observation posts along the ceasefire line with a view to enhancing the Force’s situational awareness of the area of separation. </p>
                    <p>In September 2014, in response to the occupation by al-Qa`ida-linked militants of a broad area of the Syrian side of the area of operations, UNDOF’s headquarters and the majority of mission personnel and equipment were, on a temporary basis, relocated from Camp Faouar on the so-called Bravo side to Camp Ziouani on the Israeli (Alpha) side. Although most fixed UN positions and observation posts on the Bravo side were vacated, smaller numbers of UNDOF peacekeepers remained at Mount Hermon (Syria, near the border with Lebanon), and a very limited presence remained elsewhere on the Bravo side within easy access to the Alpha line. In December the UN Security Council called on all warring parties to co-operate with UNDOF, and all groups other than UNDOF to abandon UN positions and to return all weaponry and other equipment belonging to the mission. In June 2015 the UN Secretary-General urged the Syrian authorities to halt air strikes in UNDOF’s area of operations, and noted with concern the increasing deployment in the area of separation of heavy weaponry and armed vehicles by the Syrian forces and armed groups. During late 2015 Syrian forces were reported to have recaptured several positions from militant groups operating in the Golan Heights area, relieving tensions there. However, air strikes were reported to have intensified in the southern area of UNDOF’s operations.</p>
                    <p>In November 2016 UNDOF deployed a limited resumed presence at Camp Faouar. It was envisaged that a gradual return of UNDOF personnel to the area of separation would be implemented, pending improvements in the overall security situation. In the following month, however, the Secretary-General observed that exchanges of heavy artillery fire between the Syrian military and armed opposition groups were continuing to spill over into the areas of separation and of limitation, and that the militant Islamic Jabhat Fateh al-Sham and the Yarmouk Martyrs Brigade were continuing to clash in the UNDOF area of operations. The UN Secretary-General also demanded that the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) refrain from firing across the ceasefire line, and reiterated that the presence in the area of separation of Syrian armed forces and military equipment violated the Agreement on Disengagement of Forces. He noted that the construction of an earthwork of more than 2&#160;km in length ongoing in the area of separation was of considerable concern to UNDOF as it was being used logistically by armed groups, rendering it a target for Syrian military action. In early May 2018 the Secretary-General expressed utmost concern at missile launches by Syria-based pro-Iranian forces that had targeted positions in Israel, and retaliatory strikes by the Israeli military. He urged the immediate cessation of all provocative and hostile acts. He observed in June that, in defiance of relevant UN Security Council resolutions, terrorist groups were continuing to exchange fire in UNDOF’s area of operations. As a consequence of an offensive initiated in July by the Syrian armed forces and allies to oust militants from southwestern areas of Syria, significant numbers of people fled to the area of separation for security.</p>
                    <p>In October 2018, following agreement between the UN, Syria and Israel, the Qunaytirah border crossing in the Golan Heights was reopened, for the first time since 2014, enabling UNDOF to facilitate humanitarian focused crossings. In December 2018 the UN Secretary-General reported that by August, as Syrian Government forces had increasingly regained territorial control, conflict had largely abated across previously militant-held areas. In December 2019 he stated that, despite a definite improvement in the security situation, UNDOF was reporting the continued presence of armed groups, and attacks against detachments of the Syrian armed forces in the area of limitation on the Bravo side and nearby. Attempted and achieved assassinations of former opposition leaders that had reconciled with the national authorities were also reported. From March 2020, as a COVID-19 containment measure, the gate at the Qunaytirah crossing to the Alpha (Israeli) side was closed, adversely impacting UNDOF and OGG movements. Also, mounting public unrest in Lebanon since late 2019 was reported to be negatively affecting the mission’s primary supply route (for example for fuel, rations and personnel) between Beirut and Damascus. In December 2020 the UN Secretary-General observed that the situation in the southern zone of the area of limitation on the Bravo side was particularly unstable. In June 2021 the Secretary-General reported that frequent attacks had continued in the southern part of the area of UNDOF’s operations, and in Jasim, Muzayrib, Nawa and Tafas. The Syrian armed forces had reportedly reinforced their presence around Umm Batinah (in the central zone). UNDOF completed its return to the Bravo (Syrian) side in the second half of 2021. In September 2022 the Secretary-General reported that drones were being flown across the ceasefire line, and unauthorized weapons and equipment had been observed in the area of limitation on both sides. Reports emerged in November that the IDF had initiated the construction of a paved road close to the Alpha line.</p>
                    <p>In March 2023 Syria informed the President of the UN Security Council that Israel had conducted an air raid (from Ladhiqivih) against Syria’s Aleppo International Airport. In November the Secretary-General reported that while the ceasefire between Israel and Syria had recently generally been upheld, the situation in UNDOF’s area of operations remained volatile, with repeated violations in the areas of limitation and separation, and across the ceasefire line. He stated concern at reports that rockets were being launched from Syrian territory towards the Alpha (Israeli) side, and that the IDF was firing into the area of separation and across the ceasefire line. UNDOF continued to protest to the parties with respect to all observed violations of the Disengagement of Forces Agreement. Restrictions on passage through the Alpha gate at the Qunaytirah crossing were tightened following the escalation in October of Hamas-Israel conflict, and the mission’s movements were also restricted by Lebanese administrative requirements. UNDOF continued to conduct fortnightly inspections of the military positions of the Israeli and Syrian armed forces in parts of their respective areas of limitation.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Operational Strength</heading>
                    <p>At 30 November 2023 the mission comprised 1,147 troops and 59 staff officers. Assistance is provided by military observers of the UNTSO’s OGG. International and local civilian support staff totalled 125 personnel (in 2018).</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Finance</heading>
                    <p id="IO-UN.1541">The General Assembly appropriation for the operation over the period 1 July 2023-30 June 2024 amounted to US&#8201;$69.3m.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-block>
     </int-org-entry>
     <int-org-entry id="IO-UN.PKO.1" iso="io-un.pko.1" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
          <int-org-entry-head>
               <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                    <org-entry-name>United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo</org-entry-name>
                    <abbr>UNMIK</abbr>
               </int-org-name-group>
          </int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-block>
               <address-block>
                    <address type="POSTAL">
                         <verbatim-address>Priština, Kosovo</verbatim-address>
                    </address>
               </address-block>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="IO-UN.1543" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General and Head of Office</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Caroline</forename>
                                        <surname>Ziadeh</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Lebanon</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Establishment and Mandate</heading>
                    <p>In June 1999 the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 1244, which outlined the terms of a political settlement for Kosovo, and provided for the establishment of UNMIK as the supreme legal and executive authority in the (then) southern Serbian province. UNMIK had responsibility for all civil administration and for facilitating the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the province as an autonomous region. For the first time in a UN operation, other organizations (the European Union—EU and Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe—OSCE) were mandated to co-ordinate aspects of the operation in Kosovo, under the UN's overall jurisdiction. Resolution 1244 also authorized the deployment of a security presence: the NATO-led Kosovo Peace Implementation Force (KFOR). Following Kosovo’s declaration of independence from Serbia in 2008 UNMIK was restructured and its role reoriented.</p>
                    <!--S/PRST/2008/44 - 26.xi.2008 - role of EULEX -->
                    <p>
          UNMIK’s priorities are to promote security, stability and respect for human rights. It pursues constructive engagement with the Kosovo authorities, the Serbian Government (principally through an office in Belgrade), UN agencies and programmes deployed locally, the EU Rule of Law Mission in Kosovo (EULEX), the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="OSCE.IO.CASEE.118">OSCE Mission in Kosovo</xr>
          , and with other regional and international stakeholders. The UNMIK Regional Office in Mitrovika (comprising a headquarters, three municipal offices, and the UNMIK Administration—Mitrovica) liaises with all communities in Kosovo to promote peaceful inter-ethnic relations. It implements trust-building initiatives and facilitates dialogue. It monitors the local implementation of the Council of Europe Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities.
        </p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading usage="casee edio">Activities, 1999-2007</heading>
                    <p usage="casee edio">The Kosovo-UNMIK Joint Interim Administrative Structure, agreed in December 1999, established an executive Interim Administrative Council and a framework of administrative departments. In January 2000 UNMIK oversaw the inauguration of the Kosovo Protection Corps, a civilian agency comprising mainly former members of the newly demilitarized Kosovo Liberation Army. From January 2001 UNMIK international travel documents were distributed to Kosovars without Yugoslav passports. In May the UN Secretary-General's Special Representative (SRSG) signed the Constitutional Framework on Interim Self-Government. In December, following a general election in November, the SRSG inaugurated the new 120-member Constitutional Assembly, and in March 2002 the new President, Prime Minister and Interim Government took office. In November the mission established the UNMIK Administration—Mitrovica, superseding parallel institutions that had operated hitherto in Serb-dominated northern Mitrovica, and thereby extending UNMIK's authority over all Kosovo.</p>
                    <p usage="casee edio">In March 2003 a Transfer Council was established with responsibility for transferring competencies from UNMIK to the provisional institutions of self-government (PISG). UNMIK and the UN Development Programme jointly launched a Rapid Response Returns Facility in June, to assist returnees from inside and outside Kosovo through the provision of housing and socioeconomic support. In October the SRSG mediated an agreement between Kosovan and Serb leaders, supported by the international Contact Group on the Balkans, to pursue a process of direct dialogue.</p>
                    <p usage="casee edio">In March 2004 the SRSG and the Kosovo Government launched the Kosovo Standards Implementation Plan, as a mechanism for reviewing democratic standards and assessing the progress of the PISG. (This was replaced in August 2006 by a European Partnership Action Plan.) During March 2004 rioting erupted in Kosovska Mitrovica and violent clashes between Serb and Albanian communities occurred throughout the province. UNMIK undertook to restore the confidence of the affected communities, to assist with the reconstruction of damaged infrastructure, and to investigate the instigators of the violence. An UNMIK Senior Adviser on Minority Issues was appointed in January 2005. UN-mediated negotiations on the future status of the province were organized during 2006; a Settlement Proposal presented to the relevant parties in February 2007 was, however, rejected. At that time two Kosovan ethnic Albanians participating in a protest against the Proposal (which did not provide for Kosovan independence, for which they were advocating) were killed by rubber bullets fired by UNMIK.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>2008-19</heading>
                    <p>In February 2008 UNMIK appealed for restraint following a declaration of independence from Serbia, announced by the newly inaugurated Assembly of Kosovo—that had been elected at an UNMIK-facilitated general election held in November 2007. A new Kosovan Constitution entered into force in June 2008, providing for the transfer of executive powers from the UN to the elected authorities and for an EU police and justice mission (i.e. EULEX) to assume supervisory responsibilities from the UN; UNMIK worked closely with the EU in the design of EULEX, which reached full operational capacity in April 2009. The EU `pillar’ of UNMIK’s initial structure, which had been concerned with economic reconstruction, was terminated on 30 June 2008. Also in June UNMIK ceased issuing travel documents, given the introduction of national passports by the Kosovan authorities.</p>
                    <p>With a view to diffusing local tensions in northern areas, UNMIK facilitated a new security co-ordination forum from 2011, comprising KFOR, EULEX, the OSCE and northern Kosovo Serb leaders. In January 2012 UNMIK and partners re-established regular meetings of a lapsed Human Rights International Contact Group on Kosovo. In April 2013, in the framework of an EU-led dialogue that was initiated in March 2011, the Prime Ministers of Kosovo and Serbia signed a 15-point `First agreement on principles governing the normalization of relations’ (the `Brussels Agreement’). UNMIK was tasked with supporting its implementation. Mayoral and municipal elections took place in Kosovo in November-December 2013, for the first time under a single legislative framework throughout the territory. Legislative elections were staged in June 2014. The EU-facilitated Kosovo-Serbia dialogue was restarted in February 2015—and has been subsequently intermittently paused and resumed. In December 2018, at the request of Serbia, the Security Council addressed the situation in Kosovo, following the adoption in Kosovo in that month of controversial legislation that provided for significant long-term reforms to the mandate, role and strength of the Kosovo Security Force (this was deemed by Serbia to contravene provisions of Resolution 1244). An UNMIK-funded legal support centre was established in Priština in May 2019.</p>
                    <!--EU-Kosovo Stabilization and Association Agreement initialled vii.2014-->
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>2020-24</heading>
                    <p>From 2020 UNMIK supported the response of Kosovan public health institutions and communities to the COVID-19 pandemic. The mission closely monitored the human rights repercussions of the pandemic and of the restrictive measures imposed to contain it, with a focus on the disproportionately severe impact on vulnerable communities. Multi-ethnic projects were initiated by the mission to support young people affected by the crisis, and assistance was extended to domestic violence shelters. In November Hashim Thaçi, the President of Kosovo, and three fellow former senior figures in the Kosovo Liberation Army were detained by the Kosovo Specialist Chambers (established in 2015, under EU auspices, in The Hague, Netherlands). All were charged with bearing criminal responsibility for war crimes committed during 1998-99. In February 2021 the SRSG urged the Kosovo authorities to investigate recent incidents of intimidation and attacks against journalists, and restrictions imposed on their freedom of movement. The Kosovo Specialist Chambers initiated its first trial in September. UNMIK supported the establishment in November of a Human Rights Network in Kosovo.</p>
                    <p>
          In January 2022 the Kosovo Assembly banned the national Serbian minority from voting in a constitutional referendum that was held in Serbia in that month. Tensions heightened in mid-2022 over, 
          <i>inter alia,</i>
           the ongoing mandatory replacement of Serbia-issued vehicle licence plates (still in use by members of Kosovo’s ethnic Serb minority). In November, as discord over the licence plate issue further mounted, the SRSG called for calm, and a resumption of dialogue; an EU-brokered agreement on the matter was eventually reached. In December the SRSG organized a roundtable on ending the practices of early and forced marriage.
        </p>
                    <p>In May 2023 the SRSG strongly condemned an eruption of violence in northern Kosovo, and called for a de-escalation—clashes between Kosovan Serb protesters and the Kosovan police and KFOR having ensued when Kosovan Albanian officials who had been elected in April in Serbian-boycotted municipal polls had attempted to enter municipal buildings (that were being blockaded by Serbs) to take office. In July the SRSG deplored and called for a thorough investigation into an arson attack perpetrated against a home housing Kosovan returnees in Veriq/Verić. In September she strongly condemned the killing by armed Serbs of a Kosovan police officer, called for the perpetrators to be held accountable, and urged that all sides demonstrate restraint. At the beginning of February 2024 the Kosovo authorities determined to outlaw the use of the Serbian dinar in commercial transactions in northern communities. At that time the SRSG stated serious concern over the economic and social rights of Kosovo Serbs and other minority communities.</p>
                    <p>
          The SRSG organized an event in May 2023 titled Trustbuilding in Kosovo: Supporting Togetherness for a Better Future, at which the Priština-based Barabar Centre was launched, a multi-ethnic dialogue civic space for people from all Kosovan communities. Also in that month UNMIK, the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and 37 civil society entities jointly released the 2023 edition of the 
          <publ-name>Civil Society Report on Human Rights in Kosovo</publ-name>
          , representing the fourth such annual publication. The 10th annual Global Open Day on Women, Peace and Security was convened by UNMIK and UN Women at the end of May, and in the following month the mission organized a UN Youth Assembly. Support has been provided to facilitate the administration of justice, for example through the provision of translators and free legal assistance. UNMIK contributed to the formulation of guidelines that were issued in mid-2023 on the law and use of languages. At a further trustbuilding event convened in November, a new roadmap was drafted, focused on areas including language rights, rule of law, civic participation, inclusion, media, the environment, and economic empowerment.
        </p>
                    <p>In co-ordination with international partners UNMIK has worked to prevent radicalization and recruitment by extremist organizations in Kosovo. With the OSCE, UNMIK facilitates the Skopje Process, which promotes durable solutions for displaced Kosovars. The mission has continued to assist members of the Ashkali, Egyptian and Roma communities with obtaining documentation and resolving civil status issues, thus enabling their access to public services, and to support the continuing investigatory process into the situation of persons still reported as missing from the 1998-99 conflict (numbering 1,616 in October 2023), including by funding a Missing Persons Resource Centre. The mission has also co-operated with the International Criminal Police Organ­ization, facilitating the issuance of `Red Notices’ (wanted persons alerts), and assisting with extraditions.</p>
                    <p usage="casee">In co-operation with UNESCO, UNMIK has monitored the protection of cultural and religious heritage sites. UNMIK has continued its efforts to facilitate the participation of Kosovo in international and regional arrangements and ­conferences.</p>
                    <!--Radio Ophelia: suspended in 2024-->
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Operational Strength</heading>
                    <p>At 30 November 2023 UNMIK comprised nine police officers and 10 experts on mission.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Finance</heading>
                    <p id="IO-UN.1550">The General Assembly proposed the apportionment of US&#8201;$44.3m. to the Special Account for UNMIK to finance the operation during the period 1 July 2023-30 June 2024.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-block>
     </int-org-entry>
     <int-org-entry id="IO-UN.PKO.2" iso="io-un.pko.2" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio mena">
          <int-org-entry-head>
               <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                    <org-entry-name>United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon</org-entry-name>
                    <abbr>UNIFIL</abbr>
               </int-org-name-group>
          </int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-block>
               <address-block>
                    <address type="POSTAL">
                         <verbatim-address>Naqoura, Lebanon</verbatim-address>
                    </address>
               </address-block>
               <!--~ unifil.unmissions.org-->
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="IO-UN.1553" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Force Commander and Chief of Mission</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Maj.-Gen.</title>
                                        <forename>Aroldo</forename>
                                        <surname>Lázaro Sáenz</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Spain</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
                    <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Maritime Task Force Commander</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Rear Admiral</title>
                                        <forename>Axel</forename>
                                        <surname>Schulz</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Germany</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Establishment and Mandate</heading>
                    <p>UNIFIL was established by UN Security Council Resolution 425 in March 1978, following an invasion of Lebanon by Israeli forces. The mission was mandated to confirm the withdrawal of Israeli forces, to restore international peace and security, and to assist the Government of Lebanon in ensuring the return of its effective authority in southern Lebanon. UNIFIL also extended humanitarian assistance to the population of the area, particularly following the second Israeli invasion of Lebanon in 1982. UN Security Council Resolution 1701, approved in August 2006, increased UNIFIL's authorized troop strength to 15,000 and expanded the mission’s mandate to include monitoring the ceasefire between the two sides, ensuring that its area of operations is not used for any hostile activity, supporting the deployment of Lebanese troops in southern Lebanon, facilitating humanitarian access to civilian communities, and assisting voluntary and safe returns of internally displaced persons (IDPs). A tripartite forum provides the framework for regular meetings between the UNIFIL Force Commander and senior officials from the Lebanese and Israeli security forces. The UNIFIL Liaison Branch, formed in 2006, tracks and promotes regular three-way communication, and provides rapid responses aimed at anticipating and de-escalating tensions along the Blue Line. Observers from UNTSO’s Observer Group Lebanon provide support to UNIFIL in the perform­ance of its tasks, as required. From 2017 UNIFIL was tasked with developing a more comprehensive mechanism for reporting violations of Resolution 1701, and with focusing in more detail on the military presence of Hezbollah. In August 2020 the UN Security Council reduced UNIFIL’s maximum authorized troop ceiling to 13,000, and mandated the mission to undertake temporary special measures to assist with the recovery of Lebanon and the Lebanese people in the aftermath of the Beirut port explosion catastrophe. UNIFIL maintains 55 positions in its area of operations (border wall constuction by the Israel Defense Forces—IDF has, however, reportedly limited some visibility). </p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>2006-18</heading>
                    <p>In July 2006 a full-scale conflict erupted between the Israeli armed forces and Hezbollah, prompted by the capture of two Israeli soldiers, and the killing of three others. An estimated 1,000 Lebanese civilians were killed and 900,000 displaced from their homes during the unrest. A ceasefire entered into effect in mid-August, following the adoption by the UN Security Council of Resolution 1701 (q.v.). At the request of the Lebanese Government, Resolution 1701 also established the Maritime Task Force (MTF)—the first naval task force to participate in a UN peacekeeping mission—which was deployed from October to support the Lebanese Navy in monitoring and securing Lebanon’s territorial waters and coastline, and preventing the unauthorized entry of arms by sea into Lebanon. In September a Strategic Military Cell was formed to provide guidance to UNIFIL. A UN Mine Action Co-ordination Centre of South Lebanon was also established to co-ordinate efforts to locate and destroy unexploded munitions.</p>
                    <p>In July-August 2014 stability along the Blue Line was jeopardized by the outbreak of intense conflict in Gaza; several rockets were fired from Lebanon towards Israel at that time, while UNIFIL investigated all incidents and liaised with all parties to diffuse the situation. In March 2015 the President of the UN Security Council expressed deep concern over recent levels of violence in UNIFIL’s area of operations. In August 2016 the Lebanese authorities announced that they would file a complaint to the UN Security Council protesting Israeli incursions into the Ghajar and the Sheba’a Farms border settlement area. A meeting between the Lebanese and Israeli militaries that was convened by UNIFIL in February 2018 discussed Israeli plans to construct a security wall at the Israel-Lebanon border, aimed at preventing incursions and attacks by Hezbollah: the Lebanese contingent claimed that the project violated Lebanese sovereignty.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>2019-24</heading>
                    <p>
          The UNIFIL Force Commander urged maximum restraint and stated serious concern over a Hezbollah precision missile attack that was conducted across the Blue Line on 1 September 2019 against Israeli military positions. Israel had reportedly fired back 100 shells in retaliation. At the beginning of October the inaugural meeting was convened of a joint UNIFIL-Office of the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.PB.0004.1">UN Special Coordinator for Lebanon</xr>
           (UNSCOL) strategic forum, with a view to enhancing efficiencies between the two entities. From October Lebanese troops were deployed to control mounting national anti-government protests. With the country mired in a deepening economic crisis, domestic budgetary constraints were reported to be undermining the Lebanese military’s resources. UNIFIL and UNSCOL, meanwhile, jointly worked to de-escalate local tensions. Despite social lockdown measures that were enacted in March 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, public unrest re-emerged in Beirut and other areas in late April. In June the UN Secretary-General recommended joint UNIFIL-UNSCOL participation in donor consultations, as a means of strengthening mutual co-ordination. In August UNIFIL troops assisted the Lebanese authorities following the explosion that devastated large parts of Beirut’s port and surrounding residential areas. An MTF vessel that had been docked in the port was damaged in the disaster, and 36 naval peacekeepers injured. (The vessel was replaced in September.) UNIFIL deployed an engineering unit temporarily to Beirut to clear debris, to undertake construction work, and to assist with the restoration of damaged heritage sites. The Secretary-General noted in November several ceasefire violations in recent months, and counter efforts by UNIFIL to de-escalate and investigate such situations; almost daily incursions into Lebanese airspace by the IDF were reported. In late August 2021 the UN Security Council tasked the mission with taking `temporary and special measures’ (initially for six months, but subsequently extended) to assist the Lebanese military with logistical and `non-lethal material’ (e.g. food and fuel) support. Against the background of the escalation in May 2021 of conflict between Israel and the Palestinian territories, rockets were fired towards Israel from southern Lebanon on several occasions, with retaliatory artillery fire from the IDF ensuing. UNIFIL conducted technical investigations into the ceasefire violations. In November the Secretary-General condemned a marked escalation of IDF air strikes that were perpetrated in early August against targets in Lebanon, and the subsequent deployment by Hezbollah of a multi-barrel rocket launcher. In July 2022 he reported that UNIFIL’s radar capabilities had detected a rocket launch in April from Qulaylah, on the Lebanese side, that had landed near an Israeli village (Shlomi). In retaliation the IDF had fired around 50 artillery shells towards Wadi Humul (Lebanon). In December a UNIFIL convoy was attacked, resulting in the death of a peacekeeper; in March 2023 the Secretary-General noted that acts of intimidation against UNIFIL peacekeepers were continuing. At that time the Secretary-General reiterated that the continued maintenance of unauthorized weapons by Hezbollah and other militant groupings represented a grave violation of Resolution 1701, and called for an end to persistent Israeli violations of Lebanese airspace.
        </p>
                    <p>In July 2023 the UN Secretary-General reported that, on 6 April, UNIFIL had detected 24 rockets fired to the south of the Blue Line, from Sma`iyah, Malkiyah, and Zibqin; six rockets that had failed to launch were also found. On 7 April the IDF had conducted retaliatory air strikes against three targets (deemed by Israel to be Hamas-related terrorist infrastructures) close to Rashidiyah Palestinian refugee camp, south of Tyre. UNIFIL remained in constant contact with both sides, attempting to de-escalate tensions. Several incidents had recently been observed in the Shab`a Farms area, including weapons pointing by both the Lebanese and Israeli forces. The IDF was reported to be continuing to construct a wall south of the Blue Line. The Secretary-General stated in July that the mission had not been granted full access to a number of sites of interest (including unauthorized firing ranges that had been observed during air reconnaissance patrols near Dayr Amis, Frun, Qantarah and Zibqin, on the Lebanese side, and several sites near the Blue Line associated with Green without Borders—a Lebanese environmental agency). He reiterated condemnation of persistent incursions into Lebanese airspace by Israeli aircraft and drones. In August the UN Security Council renewed UNIFIL’s mandate until 31 August 2024. In November 2023 the Secretary-General reported that since the escalation of Hamas-Israel conflict in October unrest in the area of operations had also escalated and extended all along the Blue Line. During 8-20 October UNIFIL registered more than 1,000 projectile trajectories fired in both directions across the Blue Line. Numerous deaths were reported on both sides; notably, a journalist was killed by the IDF near Alma al-Sha`bon. Hezbollah and the al-Qassam Brigades of Hamas claimed responsibility for targeting Israeli positions, while Palestinian Islamic Jihad claimed to have made incursions into Israeli territory. The IDF had launched mortars, air strikes and artillery fire at suspected militant positions, rocket-launch sites and infrastructure of the Green without Borders initiative. In February 2024 UNIFIL’s Force Commander and Chief of Mission stated his concern over an intensification of hostilities, and urged all parties involved to hold fire and make space for a political and diplomatic solution to regional tensions.</p>
                    <p>UNIFIL works to mark visibly the Blue Line, involving the clearance of minefields, measuring co-ordinates, and the placement of Blue Line markers. As at March 2024 about one-half of the length of the Blue Line remained unmarked, with the potential to intensify border tensions. The UNIFIL MTF works closely with the Lebanese Navy in training, capacity-building and search and rescue activities, and conducts maritime surveillance operations. Vessels hailed by the Task Force are referred to the Lebanese authorities for further inspections. In October 2022 UNIFIL welcomed a landmark agreement between Lebanon and Israel defining a maritime border between the two countries (thus enabling the economic exploitation of natural gas fields). A partial transfer of MTF responsibilities to the Lebanese Navy was ongoing in 2024.</p>
                    <p>UNIFIL’s Force Commander has participated in meetings of the International Support Group (ISG) for Lebanon which was established by the UN Secretary-General in September 2013 to address means of supporting stability in Lebanon, in view of the impact on the country’s security and resources of the ongoing civil war in neighbouring Syria.</p>
                    <p> UNIFIL works to address misinformation and disinformation.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Operational Strength</heading>
                    <p id="IO-UN.1556">At 30 November 2023 the Force comprised 9,370 troops and 206 staff officers. Support is provided by military observers of UNTSO’s Observer Group Golan. International and local civilian support staff totalled 792, as at 20 October.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Finance</heading>
                    <p>The General Assembly appropriation for the operation for the period 1 July 2023-30 June 2024 amounted to US&#8201;$69.3m.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-block>
     </int-org-entry>
     <int-org-entry id="IO-UNPKOS.UNISFA.1" iso="io-unpkos.unisfa.1" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio ass">
          <int-org-entry-head>
               <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                    <org-entry-name>United Nations Interim Security Force for Abyei</org-entry-name>
                    <abbr>UNISFA</abbr>
               </int-org-name-group>
          </int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-block>
               <address-block>
                    <address type="POSTAL">
                         <verbatim-address>Abyei Town, Sudan</verbatim-address>
                    </address>
               </address-block>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Acting Head of Mission, and Force Commander</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Maj.-Gen.</title>
                                        <forename>Benjamin</forename>
                                        <surname>Olufemi Sawyerr</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Nigeria</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Establishment and Mandate</heading>
                    <p>UNISFA was established by UN Security Resolution 1990 on 27 June 2011, and is mandated to protect civilians and humanitarian personnel in the disputed oil-rich Abyei Area (located at the Sudan-South Sudan border); to facilitate the free movement of humanitarian aid; to monitor and verify the redeployment of government and rebel forces from the Abyei Area; to participate in relevant Abyei Area bodies; to provide demining assistance and advice on technical matters; to strengthen the capacity of the Abyei Police Service; and, as necessary, to provide—in co-operation with the Abyei Police Service—security for the regional oil infrastructure. In December the UN Security Council expanded UNISFA’s mandate to include assisting all parties in ensuring the observance of the Safe Demilitarized Border Zone, and supporting the Joint Border Verification and Monitoring Mechanism (the creation of the Zone and Mechanism having been outlined in Agreements concluded in June 2011); facilitating liaison between the parties; and supporting the parties, when requested, in developing effective bilateral management mechanisms along the border. UNISFA pursues contact with local community leaderships, and promotes intercommunity dialogue.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Activities, 2011-13</heading>
                    <p>In June 2011 the parties to the conflict in Abyei signed an Agreement on Border Security, in which they reaffirmed commitment to a Joint Political and Security Mechanism and agreed to establish a Safe Demilitarized Border Zone (SDBZ) and Joint Border Verification and Monitoring Mechanism, pending the resolution of the status of disputed areas; UNISFA was mandated from December to provide protection for the Monitoring Mechanism. Since its inauguration UNISFA has conducted regular air and ground patrols, and has established permanent operating bases in Abyei Town, Agok and Diffra. In March 2012 the UN Secretary-General reported that the security situation in Abyei remained tense, owing to the continued presence of unauthorized Sudanese armed forces, South Sudanese police, and rebels in the area, as well as ongoing large-scale nomadic migration and returns of internally displaced persons. In April the UN Security Council demanded that Sudan and South Sudan redeploy their forces from Abyei; that the two sides withdraw forces from their joint border and cease escalating cross-border violence with immediate effect, with the support of UNISFA and through the establishment of a demilitarized border zone; that Sudanese rebels should vacate oilfields in Heglig (Sudan); that Sudan should cease aerial bombardments of South Sudan; and that a summit should be convened between the two states to resolve outstanding concerns. By early May South Sudan and Sudan had agreed to abide by a seven-point Roadmap for Action, approved in late April by the AU Peace and Security Council. Accordingly, South Sudan withdrew its forces from Abyei, with logistical support and protection from UNISFA; and, also with UNISFA assistance, Sudan withdrew its military and most police from the area by early June. (However, the UN Security Council has persistently condemned the continuing deployment of a Sudanese police presence in Abyei—the so-called `Diffra Oil Police’—to guard infrastructures at the Diffra oilfields, in contravention of the June 2011 Agreement.) In March 2013, in accordance with a co-operation agreement concluded in the previous September by the Sudan and South Sudan Governments, UNISFA monitored the withdrawal of forces from the SDBZ; violations of the bilateral agreement by both countries were, however, subsequently reported. In mid-March Sudan and South Sudan reached agreement on restarting South Sudanese petroleum exports through Sudan. In May the UN Security Council authorized an increase in UNISFA’s strength; the additional peacekeepers were to be tasked with providing protection for border patrols by the Joint Border Verification and Monitoring Mechanism. A referendum on the future status of Abyei was held at the end of October, but—against the wishes of the AU—was organized and conducted on a unilateral basis by an Abyei Referendum Task Force comprising only members of the Ngok Dinka community. Following the referendum the Task Force unilaterally declared that 99.99% of eligible voters had elected for Abyei to be a part of South Sudan, and declared that this was to be the case with immediate effect. The unilateral referendum heightened intercommunity tensions, and a seasonal migration from Sudan of nomadic Misseriya pastoralists into the area, as well as a disorganized influx of 6,000 people from South Sudan, contributed to the increasing volatility of the security situation. UNISFA worked to ensure that the Misseriya migration was conducted calmly, and pursued a dialogue with the Ngok Dinka and Misseriya communities on establishing strategies and monitoring procedures aimed at eliminating weaponry from Abyei. In November South Sudan suspended its co-operation with the Joint Border Verification and Monitoring Mechanism, owing to disagreement on the location of the centre line in two areas of the SDBZ, and its link to proposed border corridors.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>2014-20</heading>
                    <p>From early 2014 a series of grave security incidents erupted between South Sudanese military and police units and Sudanese armed militias illegally deployed in the Abyei Area. In late February UNISFA’s Head of Mission, accompanied by the Special Envoy of the UN Secretary-General for South Sudan, met with the South Sudanese President, and Chairman of the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement (SPLM), Salva Kiir, with the aim of securing the withdrawal of that country’s military from Abyei. Although a near-complete withdrawal was effected in late March, a residual South Sudanese military and police presence remained, illegally, in the Awang Thou area. In late May the South Sudanese Government informed UNISFA that it would resume its co-operation with the Joint Border Verification and Monitoring Mechanism. Although the Mechanism was consequently reactivated in mid-June, its activities were hampered at that time by insufficient equipment and restrictions on movement. At the end of May, and again in October, the Security Council demanded that South Sudan and Sudan immediately resume the work of the Abyei Joint Oversight Committee, and also—as provided for under the June 2011 Agreement—initiate the establishment of an Abyei Area Administration and Council (which had been deadlocked owing to disagreements over their composition); and establish an Abyei Police Service. UNISFA was requested to observe, note and report on the presence of weaponry in Abyei. Meanwhile, South Sudan and Sudan were urged to implement confidence-building measures among the local communities. In March 2015 the Abyei Joint Oversight Committee reconvened—under new leadership—after a suspension of activities that had lasted nearly two years. Meeting in October—for the first time since May 2013—the Joint Political and Security Mechanism adopted a map of the SDBZ, the centre line of which was defined as the separation line between the armed forces of the Sudan and South Sudan Governments. Furthermore, the parties to the conflict determined to activate, in co-operation with UNISFA, all mechanisms relating to the Joint Political and Security Mechanism, including the Joint Border Verification and Monitoring Mechanism. During late 2015—guarded by around 30 armed police, in violation of the June 2011 Agreement—the Sudanese authorities undertook excavation work in Diffra (also a violation), that was aimed at fortifying the local oil installations. UNISFA requested, without success, that the construction activities cease. In May 2017 the UN Security Council reduced the mission’s authorized troop ceiling to 4,791, urged that the Abyei Joint Oversight Committee should meet in regular sessions, and reiterated the need to establish promptly the planned Abyei Area Administration and Council and Abyei Police Service. Pending the full operationalization of the latter, UNISFA’s police component has continued to conduct commun­ity-based patrols, and to help build the capacity of community protection committees.</p>
                    <p>
          Meeting in February 2018, under AU auspices with UNISFA participation, the Joint Political and Security Mechanism agreed to finalize forthwith the activation of the SDBZ. The UN Secretary-General reported in August that a recent review of UNISFA’s mandate had found that—notwithstanding the lack of progress achieved in the implementation of new security arrangements or on determining the final status of Abyei—the mission had demonstrably had a stabilizing role in the Abyei area. He proposed that, additionally to its focus on maintaining security and stability in Abyei, and monitoring the Sudan-South Sudan border, the role of the mission should be expanded to foster day-to-day solutions in support of the relevant commitments agreed by the two countries. In November 2018 the UN Security Council determined to reduce the mission’s authorized troop ceiling to 4,140; by a further 295 troops following the deployment of increased police personnel (to a ceiling of 345); and then by a further 557 troops from April 2019—unless sufficient progress was achieved towards, 
          <i>inter alia,</i>
           demarcating the South Sudan-Sudan border; ensuring full freedom of movement for UNISFA ground and air patrols; developing Joint Border Verification and Monitoring Mechanism local team sites; and the withdrawal of both parties from the SDBZ. In mid-May 2019 the Security Council authorized a reduced troop ceiling of 3,550 and an increased police ceiling of 640. In mid-July the Head of Mission deplored an unprovoked armed attack on UNISFA peacekeepers who had been providing security at Amiet Market, Abyei, resulting in several deaths.
        </p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>2021-24</heading>
                    <p>In August 2021 protesters gathered in two locations in Northern Bahr el-Ghazal state, South Sudan—in `Sector 1’ covered by the Joint Political and Security Mechanism—to demand the withdrawal of both the Joint Border Verification and Monitoring Mechanism and of UNISFA, which was reportedly accused of patrolling in a manner that was biased towards Sudan; looting ensued, and mission troops were forced to relocate. In early September UNISFA stated grave concern at the recent developments. Shortly afterwards a meeting of the Joint Political and Security Mechanism (the first since October 2020) requested South Sudan urgently to address the continuing restrictions that were being imposed by local communities in Northern Bahr el-Ghazal on the Joint Border Verification and Monitoring Mechanism, and to reactivate the temporarily vacated team sites. UNISFA also supports two Joint Political and Security Mechanism team sites at Tishwin and Abu Qussa/Wunkur (in the Mechanism’s Sector 2), where local opposition has also been encountered. In December 2021 the Security Council lowered UNISFA’s authorized troop ceiling to 3,250; the police strength was to be reduced only as the Abyei Police Service became better established with enhanced law enforcing capabilities. In March 2022 UNISFA stated deep concern at a recent escalation of violence in southern Abyei, particularly in Abyei Town and Agok/Anet, that had resulted in fatalities and in the displacement of several thousand civilians. The mission had intensified patrols in the most affected areas and had offered protection and shelter to local civilians.</p>
                    <p>In August 2021 the UN Security Council agreed to a request made in April by Sudan—in view of mounting tensions in the Sudan-Ethiopia border area—that Ethiopia (then the sole troop provider) should withdraw its military from UNISFA. Most of the Ethiopian troop contingent left in April 2022. In May 2023 the UN Secretary-General reported that the mission had transformed into a multinational force comprising troops from eight countries.</p>
                    <p>In January 2023 UNISFA welcomed commitments made by South Sudan and Sudan at a recent session of the Joint Political and Security Mechanism to ensuring the full implementation of bilateral arrangements. A UNISFA UNPOL Women Network (UUWN) was launched in June, tasked with enhancing the policing capacity of women peacekeepers. In late July UNISFA’s Force Commander warned of the destabilizing impacts on Abyei, on the mission and on local civilians posed by the internal conflict that had erupted in April in Sudan; during April-July nearly 6,000 affected people had fled into Abyei, and the mission had been forced to use only South Sudanese supply routes, thereby incurring greater costs and logistical challenges. The UN Secretary-General noted in October that, given the continuing conflict in Sudan, no progress had been made in the Abyei political process. The associated closure of Sudan’s airspace had disrupted implementation of the mandate of the Joint Border Verification and Monitoring Mechanism. A gun battle in the New Abyei Market in September was strongly condemned by the mission, as were attacks perpetrated in November by armed youths in the vicinity of Angath, Wunpeth, and Korioch. The killing was deplored in December of the Deputy Chief Administrator of Abyei and five other people during an ambush at Wunpeth. In January 2024, amid continuing violent unrest, an UNISFA base came under fire. UNISFA bases were reportedly sheltering more than 2,000 IDPs at that time.</p>
                    <p>UNISFA maintains a weapons and ammunition management facility at Dokura, central Abyei, where confiscated ordnance is destroyed. The mission has undertaken demining operations and conducted mine risk education activities, distributed educational kits, supported basic health promotion and provision, drilled bore holes to facilitate access to water, and promoted the rule of law, traditional justice, social and community development, and women’s empowerment. Several cycles of Quick Impact Projects have been implemented.</p>
                    <p>The Security Council has repeatedly condemned the continuing deployment of the Diffra Oil Police units in the Abyei Area (in continuing violation of the June 2011 Agreement), as well as the intermittent presence there of South Sudan security personnel.</p>
                    <p>UNISFA has continued to implement a conflict prevention and mitigation strategy in Abyei, involving regular patrols, monitoring and early warning assessments.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Community Liaison</heading>
                    <p>UNISFA maintains a disengagement area between the local Misseriya and Ngok Dinka communities, and liaises with the Misseriya and Ngok Dinka on means of ensuring full compliance with Abyei’s status as a weapons-free area. The mission’s Community Liaison Office supports dialogue and initiatives conducted by the two traditional groups, particularly in the context of a Joint Peace Committee that was established in February 2016. In March 2023, after months of community unrest, UNISFA and partners mediated a Misseriya-Ngok Dinka peace accord.</p>
                    <p>An internet-based radio station: Internet Radio—The Voice of Peace—was launched by the mission in August 2023.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Operational Strength</heading>
                    <p>At 30 November 2023 UNISFA comprised 2,857 troops, 121 experts on mission, 124 staff officers and 35 police officers. International and local civilian support staff totalled 287 as at 30 September.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Finance</heading>
                    <p>The approved budget for the operation for the period 1 July 2023-30 June 2024 was US&#8201;$287.2m.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-block>
     </int-org-entry>
     <int-org-entry id="IO-UN.PKO.3" iso="io-un.pko.3" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio sasia">
          <int-org-entry-head>
               <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                    <org-entry-name>United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan</org-entry-name>
                    <abbr>UNMOGIP</abbr>
               </int-org-name-group>
          </int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-block>
               <address-block>
                    <address type="POSTAL">
                         <verbatim-address>Islamabad, Pakistan (November-April); Srinagar, India (May-October)</verbatim-address>
                    </address>
               </address-block>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="IO-UN.1562" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Head of Mission and Chief Military Observer</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Rear-Admiral</title>
                                        <forename>Guillermo Pablo</forename>
                                        <surname>Ríos</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Argentina</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Establishment and Mandate</heading>
                    <p>The mission was established in 1948 by UN Security Council resolutions aiming to restore peace in the region of Jammu and Kashmir, the status of which had become a matter of dispute between the Governments of India and Pakistan. Following a ceasefire that came into effect in January 1949 the military observers of UNMOGIP were deployed to assist in its observance. There is no periodic review of UNMOGIP's mandate.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Activities</heading>
                    <p>In 1971, following the signature of a new ceasefire agreement, India claimed that UNMOGIP's mandate had lapsed, since it was originally intended to monitor the agreement reached in 1949. Pakistan, however, regarded UNMOGIP's mission as unchanged, and the Group's activities have continued, although they have been somewhat restricted on the Indian side of the `line of control', which was agreed by India and Pakistan in 1972.</p>
                    <p>In June 2015, following a period of heightened tension at the India-Pakistan border, Pakistan lodged a complaint against India with UNMOGIP, citing ceasefire violations in the Jammu and Kashmir area. In August 2016 the Office of the UN Secretary-General clarified that UNMOGIP was tasked specifically with monitoring the line of control, and not with monitoring wider local tensions. It was reported in November that the Pakistani authorities had presented the mission with a dossier listing alleged violations by India of the ceasefire agreement, and had requested that these be investigated.</p>
                    <p>On 20 February 2019 the UN Secretary-General urged India and Pakistan to defuse heightened tensions following a recent suicide bombing in Pulwama (Indian Administered Kashmir), that was apparently perpetrated by the Pakistan-based militant grouping Jaish-e Mohammed and killed at least 40 members of the Indian security forces. (The atrocity had been strongly condemned by the Secretary-General.) Soon afterwards, in retaliation, India fired on a militant camp in Pakistan, and, subsequently, the Pakistan military shot down two Indian military planes and captured an Indian pilot (who was subsequently released). Following a decision by the Indian Government in August to remove the special autonomous status granted in 1949 to Indian Jammu and Kashmir, UNMOGIP cautioned India and Pakistan to exercise restraint. (In December 2023 India’s Supreme Court upheld the decision to revoke the special status.)</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Operational Strength</heading>
                    <p>At 30 November 2023 there were 36 military observers deployed on both sides of the `line of control'. International and local civilian support staff totalled 68, in 2021. </p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Finance</heading>
                    <p>UNMOGIP expenditure is covered by the regular budget of the UN.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-block>
     </int-org-entry>
     <int-org-entry id="IO-UN.PKO.4" iso="io-un.pko.4" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio mena">
          <int-org-entry-head>
               <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                    <org-entry-name>United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara</org-entry-name>
                    <abbr>MINURSO</abbr>
               </int-org-name-group>
          </int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-block>
               <address-block>
                    <address type="POSTAL">
                         <verbatim-address>El-Aaiún, Western Sahara</verbatim-address>
                    </address>
               </address-block>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="IO-UN.1566" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General and Chief of Mission</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Alexander</forename>
                                        <surname>Ivanko</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Russia</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
                    <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Personal Envoy of the UN Secretary-General for Western Sahara</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Staffan</forename>
                                        <surname>de Mistura</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Italy/Sweden</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
                    <dir-entry id="IO-UN.1568" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Force Commander</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Maj.-Gen.</title>
                                        <forename>Md Fakhrul</forename>
                                        <surname>Ahsan</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Bangladesh</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Establishment and Mandate</heading>
                    <p id="IO-UN.1569">
          In April 1991 the UN Security Council endorsed the establishment of MINURSO to verify a ceasefire in the disputed territory of Western Sahara, to promote security and stability, and to support the implementation of an agreed settlement plan, involving the repatriation (in co-ordination with the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.1443">UN High Commissioner for Refugees—UNHCR</xr>
          ) of around 90,000 Western Saharan refugees, the release of all Sahrawi political detainees, the exchange of prisoners of war, and the organization of a referendum on the future of the territory. Western Sahara (which has rich phosphate and off-coast fisheries resources) is claimed by Morocco, the administering power since 1975, and by the Algerian-supported (and based) Frente Popular para la Liberación de Saguia el Hamra y Río de Oro—Frente Polisario. Although the referendum, originally envisaged for January 1992, was postponed indefinitely and remained so in 2024, MINURSO has continued to monitor the ceasefire and to work to reduce the threat of mines and unexploded ordnances. MINURSO provided logistical support to a UNHCR-managed Confidence Building Measures initiative—covering, for example, family visits—that was suspended in 2014, owing to local level disagreements. The mission has, on an exceptional basis, also assisted irregular migrants. A Group of Friends of Western Sahara—France, the Russian Federation, Spain (the former colonial power), the United Kingdom and the USA—has a special focus within the UN Security Council on the Western Saharan situation and on preparing resolutions concerning the mandate of MINURSO.
        </p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Activities, 1997-2014</heading>
                    <p id="IO-UN.1570" usage="ewyb edio mena">In June 1997 direct talks were initiated, under UN auspices, between Morocco and the Frente Polisario, with attendance by Algeria and Mauritania in an observer capacity. In September the two sides concluded an agreement which aimed to resolve the outstanding issues of contention, including a commitment by both parties to identify, for the purposes of the proposed referendum, eligible Sahrawi voters on an individual basis, in accordance with the results of the last official census in 1974. The process of voter identification resumed in December 1997, and was completed by early 2000. However, all parties continued to dispute the voting lists. In January 2003 the Personal Envoy of the UN Secretary-General elaborated a new arrangement for a political settlement, which was accepted by the Frente Polisario in July, but rejected by the Moroccan Government in April 2004. By August 2005 the Frente Polisario had released all its Moroccan detainees; Morocco, however, reportedly continued to hold around 150 Western Saharan prisoners.</p>
                    <p>During 2007-12, under the auspices of the Personal Envoy, nine rounds of negotiations were held between representatives of the Moroccan Government and the Frente Polisario, but without significant progression. In January 2014 the Personal Envoy, during a visit to the region affirmed a postponement of bilateral talks pending improved prospects of progress. He continued thereafter to hold confidential consultations with working parties from each side.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>2015-18</heading>
                    <p>In March 2016, during a visit to the region, the UN Secretary-General—while in Frente Polisario-occupied Bir Lehlu—referred to Morocco’s presence in Western Sahara as an `occupation’. In response, the Moroccan authorities declared that he had abandoned neutrality, and in mid-March an estimated 1m. demonstrators marched in Rabat, the Moroccan capital, to protest against the Secretary-General’s statement. Soon afterwards, the Moroccan authorities expelled 83 MINURSO civilian staff members and closed a mission liaison office in the coastal city of Dakhla. (It was reported in April 2017 that Morocco had agreed to readmit MINURSO’s El-Aaiún-based civilian staff members.)</p>
                    <p>In August 2016 the UN Secretary-General expressed deep concern over mounting tensions in the Guerguerat area of south-western Western Sahara—at the buffer strip between the Berm (the 2,700&#160;km-long Moroccan-built wall separating the Moroccan- and Frente Polisario-controlled areas) and the Mauritanian border—attributed to the close proximity of armed Moroccan and Frente Polisario units (Morocco having first deployed its military to the area purportedly as part of an anti-trafficking operation). Both sides were urged to avoid an escalation of the situation by withdrawing all armed elements, and to desist from undertaking any action likely to alter the status quo. MINURSO, meanwhile, was tasked with maintaining a presence in Guerguerat and with undertaking mediation. Nevertheless, the unrest continued, intensifying in mid-February 2017, when the Frente Polisario began to obstruct the passage through Guerguerat of civilian and commercial vehicles displaying Moroccan insignia, citing this as a deliberate provocation. In late February the Secretary-General strongly urged both the Frente Polisario and Moroccan armed elements to withdraw unconditionally from the Guerguerat area, to avoid restricting traffic, and to adhere fully to their ceasefire obligations. Shortly afterwards Morocco initiated a unilateral withdrawal from the buffer strip, and at the end of April it was confirmed that Frente Polisario forces had redeployed away from the sensitive area. From June the MINURSO presence in Guerguerat reportedly implemented strengthened security measures, owing to terrorist threats made against it. A renewed Frente Polisario presence was reported in the Guerguerat buffer zone from December. In August 2017 the Secretary-General appointed Horst Köhler, former President of Germany, to the role of Personal Envoy.</p>
                    <p>In January 2018, in view of continuing obstructions of traffic reportedly conducted by the Frente Polisario in Guerguerat, the UN Secretary-General sent a letter to the grouping that urged it to comply with international law. In April the Frente Polisario withdrew its `policing’ presence from Guerguerat, and, consequently, in July MINURSO started to draw down its temporary monitoring post in the area, while maintaining regular ground and air patrols. Visiting the region in late June-early July, the Secretary-General’s Personal Envoy met with representatives of local authorities, civil society and the business community. At that time the Frente Polisario stated that increased human rights monitoring and interaction with the Sahrawi people would enhance MINURSO’s capacity to fulfil its mandate, noted its objection to the use of Moroccan licence plates on UN vehicles in Western Sahara, and reiterated demands (objected to by Morocco as constituting recognition of the Frente Polisario’s claims) that its representatives should be permitted to meet with MINURSO inside Western Sahara and thus be treated on identical terms to Morocco. In July the AU decided to decelerate its own peace activities in Western Sahara (which had been deemed by Morocco as `biased’), and to place increased focus on supporting—through the establishment of a Troika of AU heads of state—the UN-led political process. In September the UN Secretary-General and his Personal Envoy issued invitations to all parties to initiate new negotiations for a peaceful settlement of the dispute, and in the following month the UN Security Council urged constructive engagement in the process. An initial roundtable meeting—with participation by representatives from Algeria, Morocco, the Frente Polisario and Mauritania—was convened, under the auspices of the Personal Envoy, in Geneva, in December, to discuss restarting the direct talks process. It was, however, reported that the Frente Polisario and Morocco were continuing to pursue very distinct agendas of, respectively, self-determination for Western Sahara and Morocco’s plan (first proposed in 2007) for Western Saharan administrative autonomy within a framework of Moroccan sovereignty. </p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>2019-24</heading>
                    <p>A second roundtable meeting on the future of Western Sahara took place, again under UN auspices, in March 2019. In May Köhler resigned from the role of Personal Envoy. Brahim Ghali, the Secretary-General of the Frente Polisario, wrote formally to the President of the Security Council in October requesting that the UN expedite the appointment of a new Personal Envoy, and accusing Morocco of intransigence, provocations (including continuing to breach the buffer zone at Guerguerat), of committing destabilizing actions, and of attempting to dictate the UN-led peace process with a view to entrenching its presence in Western Sahara. In December Morocco drew the attention of the Council to the Frente Polisario’s decision to organize its 15th congress in that month in the Tifariti area east of the Berm—regarded as a neutral buffer by Morocco and as `liberated’ by the Frente Polisario. Meanwhile, in December, Ghali sent another letter to the Security Council, in which he urged the Council and the UN Secretariat to restore the confidence of the Sahrawi people in the UN peace process, including by ensuring the impartiality of MINURSO, and by enabling meetings between the Frente Polisario and mission personnel to take place in the so-called `liberated’ territories. In September 2020 Ghali, in a formal letter to the UN Secretary-General, emphasized that the original Western Sahara settlement plan had been accepted by both the Frente Polisario and Morocco, reiterated the Frente Polisario’s position that a referendum on the self-determination of Western Sahara was urgently required and an `inalienable right’, called on the UN General Assembly to schedule such a poll, and—alleging that Sahrawis continued to be subjected to arbitrary arrests, illegal detentions, enforced disappearances, and extrajudicial executions—urged that a human rights monitoring dimension should be incorporated into MINURSO. He also noted that the Frente Polisario’s adherence to the ceasefire in Western Sahara was contingent upon the terms of the original settlement plan.</p>
                    <p>In November 2020 the Moroccan authorities dispatched military personnel into the buffer zone in order to secure the Guerguerat border crossing into Mauritania, Morocco’s principal road trade link with sub-Saharan Africa, which had been obstructed by Saharawi protesters; the Frente Polisario interpreted this as a provocation and declared the ceasefire observed since 1991 to be annulled. Furthermore, the Frente Polisario restricted MINURSO’s movements, and both sides limited their engagement with the mission’s leadership. Intermittent firing across the Berm subsequently persisted.</p>
                    <p>In December 2020 outgoing US President Trump recognized Moroccan sovereignty over Western Sahara. The Frente Polisario wrote to the UN in late February 2021 requesting the resumption of the UN-sponsored negotiations process. At the end of March the Frente Polisario welcomed a statement by the new US Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, that urged the acceleration of the appointment of a replacement Personal Envoy of the UN Secretary-General for Western Sahara. A new Special Representative was named in August, and—after the role had been unfilled for nearly 29 months—a new Personal Envoy, Staffan de Mistura, was designated in October. In that month Ghali defended the decision to end the ceasefire, and warned that should the territorial dispute not be resolved under UN auspices the conflict might expand and destabilize the wider region. De Mistura undertook his first visit to the region in January 2022, in an attempt to revive political dialogue. In March the Frente Polisario strongly protested an announcement by the Spanish Government (one of the Friends of Western Sahara, and hitherto an advocate for a referendum on the issue of Sahrawi independence) that—representing a full reversal of policy—it would henceforth support, as `realistic’, Morocco's autonomy plan for Western Sahara. In March 2023 Spain and Morocco initiated negotiations over the future of Western Sahara’s airspace. A letter written in June by the Frente Polisario’s co-ordinator with MINURSO, Dr Sidi Mohamed Omar, to the UN Security Council emphasized that the people of Western Sahara would never relinquish the right to self-determination and independence. It was reported in September that a Frente Polisario commander and other combatants had been killed by a drone near the Dakhla refugee camp in Tindouf, Algeria. De Mistura visited El-Aaiún in that month to meet representatives of both sides. In October the Security Council extended MINURSO’s mandate until 31 October 2024.</p>
                    <p id="IO-UN.1573">MINURSO has headquarters in the north and south of the disputed territory. There is a liaison office in Tindouf (Algeria) which was established in order to maintain contact with the Frente Polisario and the Algerian Government. The mission’s military component is deployed at nine team sites—at Smara, Mahbas, Oum Dreyga, Awsard (all east of the Moroccan-built Berm) and Bir Lahlou, Tifariti, Mehaires, Mijek, Awsard (to the west of the Berm). The mission uses geospatial imagery to supplement its local observations. In October 2023 the UN Secretary-General reported that lack of access to areas near the Berm was significantly hindering MINURSO’s observation activities. By 2024 (despite a verbal promise made in 2014) Morocco had not ended a requirement that MINURSO vehicles should display Moroccan number plates in the area west of the Berm, which has reportedly impacted wider perceptions of the mission’s impartiality.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Operational Strength</heading>
                    <p>At 30 November 2023 MINURSO comprised 194 experts on mission, 20 troops, two police officers and seven staff officers. International and local civilian support staff totalled 230, in 2018.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Finance</heading>
                    <p id="IO-UN.1574">The General Assembly appropriation to cover the cost of the mission for the period 1 July 2023-30 June 2024 amounted to US&#160;&#8201;$65.1m.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-block>
     </int-org-entry>
     <int-org-entry id="IO-UNPKOS-UNMISS.01" iso="io-unpkos-unmiss.01" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio ass">
          <int-org-entry-head>
               <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                    <org-entry-name>United Nations Mission in South Sudan</org-entry-name>
                    <abbr>UNMISS</abbr>
               </int-org-name-group>
          </int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-block>
               <address-block>
                    <address type="POSTAL">
                         <verbatim-address>Juba, South Sudan</verbatim-address>
                    </address>
               </address-block>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Special Representative of the Secretary-General</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Nicolas</forename>
                                        <surname>Haysom</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>South Africa</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
                    <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Force Commander</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Lt-Gen.</title>
                                        <forename>Mohan</forename>
                                        <surname>Subramanian</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>India</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Establishment and Mandate</heading>
                    <p>UNMISS was established in July 2011 upon the independence of South Sudan, succeeding a former UN Mission in the Sudan (UNMIS). UNMISS is mandated to support the consolidation of peace, thereby fostering longer-term state building and economic development; to assist the South Sudan authorities in conflict prevention, mitigation and the protection of civilians; and to develop the South Sudan Government's capacity to establish the rule of law and to strengthen the security and justice sectors. In May 2014 the UN Security Council restructured the mission’s mandate, with the aim of strengthening its capability to protect civilians and to support the implementation of a ceasefire agreement concluded earlier in that year.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Activities, 2011-12</heading>
                    <p>From July 2011 UNMISS liaised with the South Sudan Government and provided good offices to facilitate inclusive consultative processes involving all the stakeholders invested in nation building. The mission responded to a request by the South Sudan authorities to support the development of a national security strategy; demined (through its Mine Action Service) and opened roads; and assisted in preparing a disarmament, demobilization and reintegration (DDR) policy, as well as contributing to the construction of a DDR transitional facility in Wau, South Sudan. UNMISS supported the new Government’s ratification of principal international human rights treaties, and monitored the harmonization of the national legislative framework with international human rights standards. From the inception of UNMISS its forces were deployed in response to violent unrest in the politically volatile Jonglei State. Further deployments from 2011 included deterrence operations in Western Equatoria, and a mission to support the integration of rebel forces in Pibor (in eastern South Sudan, adjacent to Jonglei). UNMISS police activities focused on training and advising the new South Sudan Police Service.</p>
                    <p>
          From January 2012 relations between South Sudan and Sudan deteriorated, owing to factors including the disputed delineation of the joint border; control over the oil-rich Abyei Area; mutual accusations of support for anti-government rebel militia groups; and the dependence at that time of landlocked South Sudan on the use of Sudanese infrastructure for the export of its petroleum. In April the African Union (AU) Peace and Security Council approved a seven-point Roadmap for Action by Sudan and South Sudan (see the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UNPKOS.UNISFA.1">UN Interim Security Force for Abyei</xr>
          ); accordingly, both countries withdrew their forces from Abyei. In September the Presidents of South Sudan and Sudan signed a co-operation agreement, which included activating agreed security mechanisms, finalizing both sides’ full withdrawal from the border area, and issues such as the status of nationals resident in each country, banking, and oil and transitional financial arrangements.
        </p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>2013-15</heading>
                    <p>An implementation matrix for the September 2012 co-operation agreement was concluded in March 2013. At that time South Sudan and Sudan also reached agreement on reinstating South Sudanese petroleum exports through Sudan, and, in early April, oil production was restarted in South Sudan, albeit not at full output.</p>
                    <p>
          In mid-December 2013 political unrest in Juba, the South Sudanese capital, spread, almost immediately, to Jonglei, and the crisis soon escalated into full-scale conflict between forces loyal to the President, Salva Kiir, and those supportive of the Vice-President, Riek Machar. An attack against an UNMISS camp in Akobo, eastern Jonglei, caused a number of casualties, including the deaths of two mission peacekeepers. In late December the UN Security Council—condemning reported violations of human rights by all parties to the conflict, as well as threats made to and attacks upon UNMISS personnel and UN facilities—demanded an immediate cessation of hostilities and initiation of dialogue; insisted that all parties co-operate with UNMISS, in particular with respect to its mandate to protect civilians; and determined, as an urgent temporary measure, to increase the mission’s overall force strength to up to 12,500 troops and 1,323 police officers. Agreements on Cessation of Hostilities and on the Status of Detainees were concluded on 23 January 2014, and from mid-February the rebels and government pursued a dialogue aimed at resolving the situation; each side accused the other, meanwhile, of violating the ceasefire. UNMISS conducted numerous military and police patrols and worked closely with the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="IGAD.IO">Intergovernmental Authority on Development</xr>
           (IGAD), providing logistical support for the deployment of 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="IGAD.IO">IGAD</xr>
           monitoring and verification teams (MVTs) that were deployed in South Sudan from 1 April to observe the ceasefire. In May a new political agreement was signed. The Security Council subsequently authorized an increase in the troop and police strength of UNMISS, and refocused its mandate towards protecting civilians; monitoring and investigating violations of human rights; creating the necessary conditions for the delivery of humanitarian assistance; and supporting the implementation of the January ceasefire agreement. The Council expressed deep concern at persistent restrictions placed upon the mission’s movement and operations, and strongly condemned attacks perpetrated by both government and opposition forces, and other groups, on UN personnel and facilities. In August 2015 the parties to the conflict adopted the Agreement on the Resolution of the Conflict in the Republic of South Sudan. UNMISS continued to pursue its mandate to protect civilians, and to engage local stakeholders in support of the conflict resolution process, and co-operated with the IGAD Ceasefire and Transitional Security Arrangements Monitoring Mechanism that was established at that time. Despite the declaration of a permanent ceasefire, armed clashes persisted.
        </p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>2016-18</heading>
                    <p>The Transitional Government of National Unity of South Sudan was appointed in April 2016—with Kiir remaining as President and Machar returning to Juba as First Vice-President (a newly established post). In July violent unrest erupted once again in Juba, prompting Machar to flee the South Sudanese capital. In mid-August the UN Security Council—expressing grave alarm and concern at the country’s ongoing humanitarian, security, political and economic crisis—authorized the deployment of a 4,000-strong Regional Protection Force within UNMISS. Reporting to the mission’s Force Commander, the Protection Force was tasked with advancing co-operation with the Transitional Government and creating a secure environment in and around Juba, and—in response to extreme circumstances—elsewhere in South Sudan. Having initially rejected the immediate deployment of the Force, the South Sudanese authorities eventually gave consent in early September, during a visit to the country by a UN Security Council delegation. In October the mission urged the immediate cessation of hostilities in Yei, Central Equatoria, where an estimated 100,000 people had become trapped by a severe deterioration in the security situation.</p>
                    <p>In November 2016 the final report was published of a special investigation (authorized by the UN Secretary-General) into the violent unrest in Juba in July. It found that an overall lack of leadership, preparedness and organizational integration had prevented UNMISS from responding effectively to the uprising. Consequently, the UN Secretary-General dismissed the UNMISS Force Commander. In January 2017 UNMISS and the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) issued a joint report on the July 2016 atrocities which found that both government and opposition troops had showed a complete disregard for civilians, and had routinely targeted women and children, in particular those of the Nuer ethnicity. Hundreds of killings were reported to have occurred, as well as 217 rapes, and such violations were also reported to be ongoing. UNMISS and OHCHR urged the Transitional Government to remedy the pattern of violence and impunity, and stated support for the proposed establishment by the AU of a Hybrid Court for South Sudan.</p>
                    <p>Also in November 2016 the UN Secretary-General reported that, as a result of Machar’s flight from Juba in July and replacement as First Vice-President, the opposition to Kiir was split, and that leadership and representation in the institutions of transition had become disputed. The Secretary-General noted that the priority objectives of UNMISS should include support for the implementation of the peace agreement; improvement of the security situation; protection of civilians; support for human rights; establishing conditions favourable for the delivery of humanitarian assistance; and the development of the rule of law and security institutions. He recommended that the Security Council impose an arms embargo on South Sudan. (This was effected in July 2018.) The Council adopted a Resolution in December 2016 which increased the ceiling for mission police personnel and authorized the Regional Protection Force to use all necessary means to accomplish its mandate. (The phased deployment of the Force—following logistical preparations undertaken in April-May by a 60-strong advance party—began in August 2017.) In February 2017 the Security Council stated deep concern that UNMISS was not being supported by the Transitional Government of National Unity in implementing its mandated task to protect civilians and establish conditions enabling the delivery of humanitarian assistance. A national dialogue process, with a focus on forgiveness, commenced in May. On 21 December, at an IGAD-sponsored High-Level Revitalization Forum of the parties to the August 2015 Agreement on the Resolution of the Conflict in South Sudan, a new Agreement on Cessation of Hostilities, Protection of Civilians, and Humanitarian Access was adopted. In January 2018 the UN Secretary-General and the Chairperson of the AU Commission strongly condemned violations of the 21 December 2017 accord. In May 2018 the SRSG visited Unity State in response to an intensification of violence there. Violent clashes had also escalated in Central Equatoria and Jonglei. On 12 September 2018 the SRSG welcomed the adoption by the parties to the conflict, gathered in Addis Ababa, of a new Revitalized Agreement on the Resolution of the Conflict in South Sudan (R-ARCSS).</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>2019-24</heading>
                    <p>In February 2019 the UN Secretary-General reported that the parties to the R-ARCSS had made modest progress in the implementation of clauses relating to procedural matters, with the permanent ceasefire having been upheld in most areas of the country and confidence-building measures ongoing. In early May the parties to the R-ARCSS extended the pre-transition stage of the agreement (which was to have imminently ended) by six months, until November, at which time a transition period was to commence, in advance of national elections. Several pre-transition stage tasks, including the cantonment, screening, training and unification of forces, and the determination of the number and borders of states, remained to be finalized. In early June UNMISS commended the South Sudanese legislature for ratifying two international covenants relating to civil and political rights and economic, social and cultural rights. In July more than 100 civilians were killed and around 100 incidents of rape and sexual violence were reported in Central Equatoria region. Militant groupings that were not signatories to the R-ARCSS reportedly remained active there, in particular in the Yei area. In November, the parties to the R-ARCSS agreed to extend the pre-transition stage of the process for a further 100 days.&#160;On 22 February 2020 (100 days later) Kiir and Machar concluded a power-sharing agreement, formally ending the civil war. In accordance with the accord, a new Revitalized Transitional Government of National Unity (RTGoNU) was established, including Machar and other opposition leaders as Vice-Presidents.</p>
                    <p>In June 2020 the SRSG stated concern that the RTGoNU, and civilians’ lives and livelihoods, were being jeopardized by an intensifying spiral of intercommunal fighting in Jonglei (in which members of the Nuer, Dinka and Murle communities were engaged), as well as by clashes in Central Equatoria, and armed attacks in northern Unity state and in Warrap and Lakes states. The SRSG indicated that failure by political parties to agree hitherto on the appointment of governors at state level had caused a vacuum that was accommodating the lawlessness. It was reported in late July that thousands of people uprooted by the renewed conflict had sought sanctuary at an UNMISS base in Pibor. At the beginning of September UNMISS established a temporary base at Lobonok, Central Equatoria, with a view to deterring armed road ambushes of civilians and humanitarian convoys. The SRSG reported in that month that at least 600 people had been killed in Jonglei since March. He noted that UNMISS was organizing meetings with the Dinka, Murle and Nuer communities aimed at resolving grievances, emphasized the need to address contributory underlying factors (such as access to water, education and markets), and stressed the communities’ own responsibility to pursue a peaceful agenda. In December, responding to a request made in March by the UN Security Council, the Secretary-General released the results of an independent strategic review that had been conducted into challenges to peace and security in South Sudan and into UNMISS’s effectiveness. The report noted that, while the R-ARCSS had been effective in curbing major violent conflict, the implementation of reforms envisaged by the Agreement had been slow, small arms and light weapons abounded, the national security sector remained underdeveloped, and, owing to a paucity of diverse employment opportunities, young people were at risk of recruitment by armed groups. At the beginning of June 2021 a joint delegation that included representatives of UNMISS, the AU and IGAD visited Pibor (eastern South Sudan), where intercommunal violence had recently escalated. UNMISS’s response activities in Pibor had included intensifying patrols, guarding humanitarian food supplies, and engaging with local leaders to foster dialogue and reconciliation. In mid-September a peace mission comprising delegates from UNMISS, IGAD and other partners visited Tambura, in Western Equatoria, where since June some 440 people had been killed and 80,000 displaced by conflict. UNMISS had established a temporary base in the locality from which to co-ordinate its efforts to protect civilians. In August UNMISS and IGAD stated concern at splits that had emerged within Machar’s Sudan People’s Liberation Movement/Army-in-Opposition (SPLM/A-IO), that had led to unrest in Magenis, Upper Nile. The mission welcomed the inauguration in that month of a (reconstituted) Revitalized Transitional National Legislative Assembly and Council of States. The SRSG reported in December that nine state assemblies had been reconstituted. In that month the UN Secretary-General reiterated that deadlines and benchmarks relating to the implementation of the R-ARCSS were being missed. In late February 2022 UNMISS condemned and urged an end to escalating violence in Unity State. In March the SRSG stated deep concern over a decision by the SPLM/A-IO to suspend participation in the security structures of the R-ARCSS. In mid-April the SRSG convened a press conference at which he strongly condemned violent attacks being perpetrated against civilians and humanitarian workers, and emphasized the urgent need for all parties (including also non-signatories) fully to implement the R-ARCSS. In August the RTGoNU adopted an Agreement on the Roadmap to a Peaceful and Democratic End to the Transitional Period in South Sudan; this extended by 24 months the transitional period provided for under the R-ARCSS, to 22 February 2025. In early October 2022 UNMISS condemned and stated deep concern over violent clashes in Fashoda (Upper Nile), which thus far had caused numerous fatalities and had displaced more than 8,000 people. In early 2023 UNMISS developed contingency plans, having observed a significant mobilization of armed Nuer youth. The mission reported in March 2023 that more than two-fifths of South Sudanese victims of violent conflict in 2022 were based in the Upper Nile and Warrap regions.</p>
                    <p>In February 2023 the RTGoNU asked the UN, AU and IGAD for assistance in establishing a joint taskforce to support the advancement of the constitution-making and electoral processes; the inaugural meeting of the new taskforce was convened on 1 June. A controversial reshuffle of the RTGoNU implemented at the beginning of March by President Salva Kiir generated tensions between the SPLM and SPLM-IO. In early June the mission appealed for calm and stated grave concern over an eruption of lethal intercommunal conflict at the UN Protection of Civilians (PoC) Site in Malakal, in Upper Nile State. The mission augmented its presence at Malakal, and urged local community leaders to co-operate in detecting and addressing the root causes and triggers of the violence. Later in that month the SRSG warned that impacts of the conflict that had erupted in April in neighbouring Sudan—including the sudden interruption of imports and mass return of refugees from that country—had the potential to undermine the implementation of the R-ARCSS. In November the SRSG called for an end to unrest in and around Kai Gai (near Leer, Unity State). In January 2024 he condemned ongoing violence in Jonglei.</p>
                    <p>UNMISS conducts peacekeeping patrols (including air, riverine, city and night patrols) aimed at deterring intercommunal violence, and mediates with local traditional leaders. The mission has also organized workshops that engage youth and local leaders; training projects on livelihood skills; and management of a peace dialogue between local farmers and migrant pastoralists. </p>
                    <p>The mission operates a radio station (Radio Mireya), providing news and public service announcements.</p>
                    <!--Dinka (..Kiir) seen as dominant ethnic group-->
                    <p>The UNMISS Human Rights Division (HRD), which represents locally the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, monitors the observance of human rights, undertakes capacity-building initiatives in collaboration with the Southern Sudan Human Rights Commission and other partners, and reports on potential threats against the civilian population and violations of international humanitarian law. The UNMISS Child Protection Unit monitors and reports on the perpetration of Grave Violations against Children in Situations of Armed Conflict (for detail on the Grave Violations see under UNICEF). In June 2014 the Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict secured a commitment from President Kiir to issue a presidential decree criminalizing the recruitment and deployment of children by all parties to the conflict. In July 2021 UNMISS urged local and national authorities to end a wave of extrajudicial executions. In June 2023 the mission welcomed the conclusion of the activities in Yei of a UN-supported General Court Martial process, which convicted 11 members of the military of serious crimes, including murder and sexual and gender-based violence. A joint UNMISS-UN Human Rights Office report that was issued in December found reasonable grounds to believe that during August-December 2022 serious violations of international human rights law and humanitarian law were committed in the Greater Upper Nile region. Through 10 field offices and two team sites, the UNMISS Civil Affairs Division links the mission to local communities and authorities. The Political Affairs Division supports the implementation of the peace process. There is also an Office of the Gender Adviser, an HIV/AIDS Unit, and a Relief, Reintegration, and Protection Section, with a humanitarian focus.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Operational Strength</heading>
                    <p>At 30 November 2023 UNMISS comprised 13,241 troops, 425 staff officers, 232 military observers, 1,551 police officers. International and local civilian support staff totalled 2,268, in 2021.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Finance</heading>
                    <p>The approved budget for the mission amounted to US&#160;$1,148.8m. for the period 1 July 2023-30 June 2024, funded from a Special Account comprising assessed contributions from UN member states.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-block>
     </int-org-entry>
     <int-org-entry id="IO-UNPKO.MINUSCA.1" iso="io-unpko.minusca.1" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio ass">
          <int-org-entry-head>
               <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                    <org-entry-name>United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic</org-entry-name>
                    <abbr>MINUSCA</abbr>
               </int-org-name-group>
          </int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-block>
               <address-block>
                    <address type="POSTAL">
                         <verbatim-address>Bangui, Central African Republic</verbatim-address>
                    </address>
               </address-block>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Special Representative of the Secretary-General and Head of Mission</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Valentine</forename>
                                        <surname>Rugwabiza</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Rwanda</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
                    <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Force Commander</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Maj.-Gen.</title>
                                        <forename>Humphrey</forename>
                                        <surname>Nyone</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Zambia</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Establishment and Mandate</heading>
                    <p>MINUSCA was authorized in April 2014 by UN Security Council Resolution 2149, in response to the ongoing security, humanitarian and political crisis in the Central African Republic (CAR—where, in March 2013, the administration of President François Bozizé had been overturned). MINUSCA immediately subsumed the responsibilities of the former UN Integrated Peacebuilding Office in the CAR (BINUCA), and in September the mission took over the military and policing functions of the former African Union (AU)-led International Support Mission to the CAR (MISCA). MINUSCA was mandated, as its first priority, to protect civilians, as well as to support the transition process in the CAR (which ended at the end of March 2016), to facilitate humanitarian assistance, to promote and protect human rights, justice and the rule of law, and to support disarmament, demobilization, reintegration and repatriation processes. The French military `Opération Sangaris’ (deployed to the CAR during 2013-16) was instructed to use all necessary means to support MINUSCA, and the Council authorized MINUSCA—under limited circumstances and exceptionally—to adopt urgent temporary measures to maintain law and order and combat impunity. In July 2016 the Security Council amended MINUSCA’s mandate to focus on the strategic objective of supporting conditions conducive to a sustainable reduction in the threat to peace and security posed by armed groups. Its mandate was further revised in December 2023 to support the restoration and extension of state authority as a priority task.</p>
                    <!-- EUFOR RCA-->
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Activities, 2014-17</heading>
                    <p>
          In September 2014, marking the transfer of responsibility to MINUSCA from MISCA, the UN Secretary-General expressed deep concern over continuing violence in the CAR, in particular in northern areas, in spite of the conclusion of a ceasefire accord between the parties in July. He reiterated demands that all parties to the conflict halt attacks against civilians. In February 2015 MINUSCA expressed concern at widespread renewed outbreaks of communal violence since the start of that year, including within the capital, Bangui. During late 2014-early 2015 the mission captured and detained two prominent rebel leaders. In late March 2015 the UN Security Council authorized an increase in MINUSCA’s military and police personnel. MINUSCA co-chaired (with the UN Development Programme) local consultations in advance of, and helped to organize and provided logistical and political support to, the Bangui Forum on National Reconciliation, which took place in May, with participation by around 600 national stakeholders. The Forum, chaired by the Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General (SRSG), addressed issues relating to governance, peace and security, justice and reconciliation, and economic and social development. MINUSCA deployed experts to advise on the operationalization of a 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-SPEC.CRIM.COURT.CAR.1">Special Criminal Court in the CAR</xr>
          , which was established in June to hold accountable those guilty of grave crimes against humanity committed since 2003 that were not already under the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court.
        </p>
                    <p>During 2015 MINUSCA initiated patrols of areas under threat from the militant Lord’s Resistance Army, including Bangassou, Obo, Rafai and Yalinga. The mission provided technical, logistical and security support to the transitional author­ities in advance of and during the national elections that were organized at the end of December (these having been postponed from October, owing to a renewed escalation of violent unrest). In mid-December the mission furthermore provided support to facilitate the successful organization of a referendum at which the electorate approved a new national Constitution. In view of the annulment in January 2016 of the results of the legislative elections, these were repeated in mid-February, alongside a second round of presidential elections; a further round of legislative elections was held in late March. A new President, Faustin Archange Touadéra, was inaugurated at the end of March, marking the end of the period of transitional governance. In July MINUSCA’s mandate was adapted to focus on achieving a sustainable reduction in the threat to peace and security posed by armed groups. MINUSCA was to assist with the design and implementation of security sector reforms, to support the independence of the judiciary, and to seize arms and related materiel illegally smuggled into the CAR. From 2016, with the aim of promoting peaceful co-existence, MINUSCA increased its use of strategic communications, such as its nationwide `Guira FM’ radio station, and the organization of public information events. In July the EU deployed the EUTM-RCA mission in the CAR, tasked with providing strategic advice and training support to the CAR armed forces. Following the termination in October of Opération Sangaris a contingent of 350 French troops remained deployed in the country. Later in the month violent demonstrations took place in Bangui demanding the withdrawal of MINUSCA.</p>
                    <p>In February 2017 the SRSG called for the immediate cessation of hostilities in Ouaka (central CAR) and Haute Kotto (in the east) between militants of the rival groupings Front Populaire pour la Renaissance de Centrafrique (FPRC) and the Mouvement pour l’Unité et la Paix en Centrafrique (UPC), which were causing civilian fatalities and significant displacement. Later in that year there were reports of systematic atrocities against civilians allegedly being perpetrated by UPC combatants.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>2018-24</heading>
                    <p>
          In January 2018 MINUSCA, the AU and the CAR Government condemned ongoing violence being perpetrated by Revolution et Justice (RJ) and Mouvement national pour la libération de la Centrafrique (MNLC) militants in the Paoua area, in northeastern CAR, near the border with Chad. MINUSCA was attempting at that time to remove armed combatants from Paoua to enable IDP returns. In early 2018 a first round of consultations was convened with 14 rebel groupings within the context of an African Initiative for Peace and Reconciliation in the CAR, led jointly by the AU, CEEAC and the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region (ICGLR). In mid-June the UN Secretary-General noted a deterioration since April in the security situation in Bangui, and also noted increased political polarization, including a trend towards undermining the authority of the President and the credibility of MINUSCA. (A joint operation undertaken in April by the mission and the security forces to restore order in Bangui had led to significant popular criticism.) In late July the UN, AU, CEEAC, EU, World Bank, France and the USA jointly issued a statement that condemned in the strongest terms the recent violence that had erupted in Bambari, Bria, Kaga-Bandoro and Ndele, leading to significant civilian fatalities. In late January-early February 2019, in Khartoum, Sudan, representatives of the CAR Government, leaders of 14 armed groups, and delegates of political parties, religious bodies and civil society, eventually participated in direct talks within the framework of the ongoing African initiative. On 6 February they formally signed, in Bangui, a Political Agreement for Peace and Reconciliation in the CAR, which covered, 
          <i>inter alia</i>
          , more transparent and inclusive governance, justice and reconciliation, and transitional security arrangements; a follow up mechanism was to oversee its implementation. In late March President Touadéra appointed a new government, with more representation of former militant groupings. A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was concluded in mid-2020 between MINUSCA and a new AU Military Observers Mission to the CAR (MOUACA). In November the Council tasked MINUSCA with supporting the CAR national authorities in promoting inclusive dialogue among all political stakeholders during the course of a general election, which was initiated in December. In January 2021 the Constitutional Court confirmed the re-election of the incumbent President Touadéra, validating that he had won an outright majority at the first round of the presidential poll; the results of the first round of the legislative election were proclaimed in early February. Opposition leaders rejected the official results. The election was marred by violence by armed factions, which escalated in early 2021. The Security Council strongly condemned the killings of three MINUSCA peacekeepers on 25 December 2020, and of a further two peacekeepers, who died in attacks near Bangui and near Grimari (central CAR), in mid-January 2021. The SRSG and other international partners engaged with national stakeholders throughout the electoral process. Although it had been envisaged that the CAR security forces would assume the role of first responders to electoral security threats, they were deployed in insufficient numbers, and MINUSCA assumed most security responsibilities. In view of the election violence and deteriorating security situation, on 23 December 2020, and again on 10 February 2021, the Security Council authorized an exceptional reinforcement of MINUSCA, in a framework of inter-mission collaboration with UNMISS. In mid-February the UN Secretary-General recommended that MINUSCA’s military and police ceilings should be strengthened to 14,400 and 3,020, respectively, in order to enable it to fulfil its mandate as conditions evolved, and to pre-empt any further deterioration in the security situation; this was authorized by the Security Council on 12 March. A second round of the legislative election took place in mid-March. MINUSCA provided logistical support in late May to a final round of legislative elections that were held in 50 remaining constituencies. In June the UN Secretary-General commended public condemnation by the CAR President of misinformation campaigns that were seeking to incite hatred against MINUSCA and other international agencies; these, however, reportedly continued. In September the ICGLR adopted a roadmap to reinvigorate the February 2019 Political Agreement for Peace and Reconciliation; the roadmap was supported by a unilateral ceasefire announced in October 2021 by President Touadéra, and the first follow-up meeting on its implementation was held in January 2022. In November 2021 the UN Security Council tasked the mission, 
          <i>inter alia,</i>
           with providing support to a planned Republican Dialogue and local elections. The Dialogue took place in March 2022, although with minimal opposition representation. Meanwhile, French forces were withdrawn from the CAR in December 2022. Private Russian paramilitaries maintained a presence in the CAR during 2018-24, in support of the Touadéra regime.
        </p>
                    <p>In February 2023 the UN Secretary-General reported that MINUSCA was conducting joint missions with the CAR armed forces to deter militant activities, protect civilians and facilitate the extension of state authority in the Basse-Kotto, Haute Kotto, Ouham and Vakaga prefectures. During that month MINUSCA and the CAR authorities concluded a security plan in support of the (repeatedly postponed) local elections process; at that time it was envisaged that these would be initiated in July. At the end of May, however, President Touadéra announced that a referendum on a new Constitution would be held on 30 July, and the local polls were subsequently further postponed. In June the SRSG emphasized the importance of local elections in broadening the national political space. She also urged partner nations to augment support for the rapid disarmament and social reintegration of former combatants, while warning that the conflict that had erupted in April in Sudan was aggravating tensions, and prompting a deteriorating security situation and influxes of vulnerable returnees and refugees at the CAR’s borders with Chad, South Sudan and Sudan. At the referendum, held to plan at the end of July, 95.3% of votes cast favoured the new Constitution. In accordance with a new national border management policy, adopted in September, MINUSCA, the UN Country Team and the Government were to undertake projects aimed at establishing inter-agency border control posts along the CAR-Chad frontier. MINUSCA’s mandate was extended in November by the Security Council until 15 November 2024. In late February 2024 the UN Secretary-General appointed Edmond Mulet of Guatemala to lead an independent strategic review of MINUSCA.</p>
                    <p>MINUSCA has undertaken efforts to facilitate intracommunity dialogue, and, in support of the African Initiative, it provides assistance to government-led local peace and reconciliation activities, and advocates for the participation of women in the process. The mission’s Human Rights Division documents violations of human rights and international humanitarian law committed in the CAR. MINUSCA has also implemented several Quick Impact Projects, including on the rehabilitation of damaged civic infrastructure, and has supported an International Organization for Migration project aimed at relocating former rebel combatants. Community violence reduction programmes were being implemented in 2024 in the following insecure areas: Bamingui-Bangoran, Bangui, Haute-Kotto, Kémo, Mbomou, Ouham-Fafa, Nana-Mambéré, Ouham and Vakaga Prefectures. The UN Secretary-General has repeatedly condemned attacks against MINUSCA peacekeepers.</p>
                    <!--ex-S&#233;l&#233;ka and anti-Balaka revised concept -->
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Operational Strength</heading>
                    <p>At 30 November 2023 MINUSCA comprised 13,363 troops, 423 staff officers, 150 military observers and 2,994 police officers. International and local civilian support staff totalled 1,230, in 2021.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Finance</heading>
                    <p>MINUSCA’s approved budget for the period 1 July 2023-30 June 2024 amounted to US&#160;$1,145.6m., funded from a Special Account comprising assessed contributions from UN member states.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-block>
     </int-org-entry>
     <!--~ MINUSMA removed 31.xii.23-->
     <int-org-entry id="IO-UN.PKO.9" iso="io-un.pko.9" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio ass">
          <int-org-entry-head>
               <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                    <org-entry-name>United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo</org-entry-name>
                    <abbr>MONUSCO</abbr>
               </int-org-name-group>
          </int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-block>
               <address-block>
                    <address type="POSTAL">
                         <verbatim-address>Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo</verbatim-address>
                    </address>
               </address-block>
               <p id="IO-UN.1589">Liaison offices are situated in Kampala (Uganda), Kigali (Rwanda) and Pretoria (South Africa).</p>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="IO-UN.1590" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General and Chief of Mission</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Bintou</forename>
                                        <surname>Keita</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Guinea</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
                    <dir-entry id="IO-UN.1591" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Force Commander</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Lt-Gen.</title>
                                        <forename> Otávio</forename>
                                        <surname>Rodrigues De Miranda Filho</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Brazil</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Establishment and Mandate</heading>
                    <p>MONUSCO’s deployment was authorized in May 2010, under UN Security Council Resolution 1925, to reflect a new phase in the ongoing peace process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). MONUSCO was inaugurated on 1 July, succeeding the former UN Mission in the DRC (MONUC), which had been active since August 1999. MONUSCO was to use all necessary means to carry out its mandate, which focused on protecting civilians and humanitarian personnel, as well as safeguarding UN staff, facilities, installations and equipment; assisting the DRC regime in efforts towards stabilizing the country and consolidating peace, including supporting its International Security and Stabilization Support Strategy (ISSSS); helping with strengthening the capacity of the military and with police reforms; supporting disarmament, demobilization and rehabilitation (DDR) activities; developing and implementing a multi-year joint UN justice support programme; consolidating state authority in areas freed from the control of armed militia; providing technical and logistics support for local and national elections at the request of the Government; monitoring the arms embargo against rebel militia active in the DRC; providing human rights training to DRC government officials, security service personnel, journalists and civil society organizations; advancing child protection; combating sexual violence; and promoting the representation of women in decision-making roles. MONUSCO was to focus its military forces in mineral-rich insecure eastern areas of the DRC, while maintaining a reserve force that could be deployed elsewhere at short notice. Prior to the provision of logistical and other support, the mission screens DRC military commanders for human rights violations.</p>
                    <p>In December 2023 the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 2717 which, extending MONUSCO’s mandate until 24 December 2024, provided for a gradual and sustainable withdrawal from the country, in accordance with a request by the DRC Government.</p>
               </p-group>
               <!--10th Feb 15 UN withdrew support for FARDC operations against the FDLR after the Govt refused to remove generals accused of human rights abuses ISSSS-->
               <p-group>
                    <heading>2012-13</heading>
                    <p>
          MONUSCO undertook several military operations in 2012 to protect civilians in Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA)-affected areas, and—including through its regional radio network `Radio Okapi’—supported an initiative of the national armed forces to encourage LRA members to enter a disarmament, demobilization, repatriation, resettlement and reintegration process. The mission was tasked with assisting the African Union (AU) Regional Task Force, which was mandated to combat the LRA, through the provision of logistical support to the Force’s Dungu (Haut-Uele) Joint Intelligence and Operations Centre. Militants of the newly formed Kivu-based March 23 Movement (known as M23) became increasingly active from May 2012, clashing with government forces and causing mass population displacement. In late August the Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General (SRSG) expressed deep concern over continued reports of systematic massacres of civilians in North Kivu. In September three UN integrated offices were launched, under the authority of UN Area Co-ordinators, in Matadi (Bas-Congo), Mbuji-Mayi (Kasaï Oriental) and Kananga (Kasaï Occidental), in place of previous MONUSCO offices, signifying the first phase of the transition process towards an emphasis on peacebuilding. In November MONUSCO deployed attack helicopters and ground infantry support vehicles in order to assist the Congolese army and to protect civilians against an escalation of fighting by M23 in North Kivu. The UN Security Council, meeting in emergency session, condemned the resumption of violence and consequent displacement of the civilian population. At the end of November MONUSCO mobilized 17 rapid reaction units with the intent of monitoring the withdrawal of M23 troops to an internationally agreed Neutral Zone some 20 km outside of Goma. MONUSCO troops also escorted national police forces to key locations within that city with a view to restoring lawful control. In early December, in accordance with the terms of a 24 November communiqué of the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.28.2">International Conference of the Great Lakes Region</xr>
           (ICGLR), representatives of M23 and the DRC Government initiated a dialogue, mediated by the Ugandan Minister for Defence. By early 2013 police numbers in Goma had been restored, with support from MONUSCO, to the pre-M23-occupation level of around 3,500. In February the leaders of 11 African countries, meeting in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, signed the Peace, Security and Cooperation Framework for the DRC and the Region, which aimed to protect and stabilize the Great Lakes region; the UN, the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="AU.IO">AU</xr>
          , the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.28.2">ICGLR</xr>
           and 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="SADC.IO">Southern African Development Community (SADC)</xr>
           were to act as guarantors of the Framework.
        </p>
                    <p>In March 2013, at the request of the UN Secretary-General, the Security Council authorized the establishment of a Force Intervention Brigade (FIB), to be deployed under the umbrella of MONUSCO’s operations, and under the direct command of the MONUSCO Force Commander, with a mandate to confront urgent threats to security by conducting targeted offensive operations against any armed militia perpetrating violence in eastern areas of that country, including foreign armed groups active in the region; and to disable and disarm such militia and reduce the threat posed by them to state authority and civilian security. Based in North Kivu, the FIB was to comprise a total of 3,069 peacekeeping troops. From May the new Force was deployed, in the form of a brigade from SADCBRIG, the SADC’s regional standby force, comprising troops from Malawi, South Africa and Tanzania. The FIB was activated for the first time in July to enforce a security zone around Goma. In September the ICGLR granted MONUSCO permanent representation on its Expanded Joint Verification Mechanism (a military monitoring team) and appealed to MONUSCO to provide logistical support to the Mechanism. The full deployment of the FIB was completed in early October. Towards the end of that month the Brigade assisted the DRC security forces in a robust action against M23 rebels, starting in the Kibumba area, to the north of Goma. On 5 November the M23 declared the end of its rebellion in eastern DRC. Subsequently, a so-called Kampala dialogue took place between the DRC Government and the M23 leadership, culminating, in December, in the signing of final declarations by the parties, representing a political resolution to issues including the cantonment and DDR of former combatants. MONUSCO was to assist efforts to restore state authority in areas that had been destabilized by the rebel grouping, to support the DDR process, and to undertake extensive patrols, including jointly with the DRC armed forces, throughout the Kivus, and Orientale, Maniema and Katanga provinces.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>2014-17</heading>
                    <p>From 2014 MONUSCO undertook to strengthen its active presence in eastern DRC, while maintaining an antenna presence in areas not affected by armed conflict. The transfer of certain tasks from the mission’s remit to the scope of the UN’s DRC Country Team was envisaged, in areas including humanitarian demining, technical elections support, capacity building, and justice and corrections. In July, under the ISSSS, 13 `Priority Zones’ were formally designated by national and international stakeholders. In March 2015 the Security Council authorized a reduction, by 2,000 personnel, in the mission’s actual troop strength, while maintaining the previously authorized troop ceiling.</p>
                    <p>During 2016-17, in accordance with a request by the Security Council in March 2016, MONUSCO was restructured around four `Pillars’, to enhance implementation of its mandate to protect civilians from violence by armed groups. In mid-September 2016 President Joseph Kabila of the DRC (whose second and final term of office was constitutionally mandated to end on 19 December) postponed a general election that had been scheduled for November, thereby prompting widespread protests and violent unrest in Kinshasa. MONUSCO strengthened its presence and undertook robust patrolling in the DRC capital. In late October MONUSCO and the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights released the preliminary report of a joint investigation into the human rights violations perpetrated during the September unrest. Meanwhile, in late 2016, in support of a mediation initiative being led by the National Episcopal Conference of Congo, the SRSG and the Special Envoy of the UN Secretary-General for the Great Lakes Region held consultations in Kinshasa with principal DRC political stakeholders. A political compromise was reached, on 31 December, whereby Kabila was to remain head of state pending a general election to be held before the end of 2017. In January 2017 the UN Secretary-General noted mounting political tensions in the DRC. He reported that joint operations conducted by the FIB and the national Forces armées de la Républic démocratique du Congo (FARDC), focused on the Beni area of North Kivu (and assisted by MONUSCO during May-September 2016), had significantly disrupted armed rebel activity in that province. A new Prime Minister was appointed in April 2017, and in May a transitional administration was inaugurated. In November the long-awaited general election was further postponed, until December 2018.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>2018-24</heading>
                    <p>In January 2018 the UN Security Council strongly condemned the continuing political stalemate and also recent violence perpetrated against protesters. The Council urged all DRC stakeholders to remain committed to the agreement made on 31 December 2016. In July 2018 the UN Secretary-General reported a recent significant deterioration in the security situation in North and South Kivu provinces, owing to a resurgence of activities by the rebel Mai-Mai and Islamic State-linked Allied Democratic Forces (ADF). He noted resultant popular discontent with the national security forces and with MONUSCO, and that, in response, the mission had increased its presence and community outreach activities. During 2018, in the context of the ISSSS, MONUSCO supported the implementation of six targeted stabilization interventions which aimed to address the root causes of conflicts in Ituri, North Kivu and South Kivu. In August MONUSCO, the AU, the EU and other international stakeholders issued a joint statement welcoming Kabila's withdrawal from the presidential contest. Later in that month the UN Secretary-General also urged the Independent National Electoral Commission to submit necessary details to enable MONUSCO to provide timely and efficient technical and logistical support to the electoral process, as mandated by the UN Security Council (the DRC Government was at that time refusing all external electoral assistance). In early September DRC opposition leaders issued a joint statement urging the Government to abide by the constitutional process, and for MONUSCO to be able, unhindered, to provide assistance. </p>
                    <p>On 24 January 2019, in a controversial outcome of the presidential poll that had finally taken place in December 2018, Félix Tshisekedi was inaugurated as the new DRC president. In March 2019 the UN Security Council called for an independent strategic review of MONUSCO, which was to include a comprehensive exit strategy for the mission. The mission and DRC authorities subsequently collaborated on the development of a suitable strategy to guide the transfer of the mission’s tasks to the DRC authorities, the UN DRC Country Team, and other stakeholders. On 30 December a DRC-UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework was adopted, to cover the period 2020-24; MONUSCO was to be closely engaged with implementing the Framework.</p>
                    <p>An independent assessment report was issued in January 2020 on MONUSCO’s response to a high number of attacks allegedly perpetrated by the ADF, that resulted in the deaths of more than 260 civilians during the final two months of 2019, in Beni (North Kivu). In late November 2019, in this respect, a MONUSCO local office had been attacked by hostile residents. The report also addressed attacks against Ebola crisis responders in Mambasa (Ituri). It was noted that, since 2014, the ADF had systematically attacked civilians as a means of deterring the DRC military. The report recommended a comprehensive response to civilian protection, from MONUSCO, the UN DRC Country Team, and other partners. In March 2020 the UN Secretary-General observed that armed attacks against civilians had been increasing in North Kivu and Ituri, and that elements of the local population were increasingly protesting MONUSCO’s and the armed forces’ perceived lack of decisive, effective action against the militia. In August a unilateral UN decision to reconfigure the FIB was protested by the SADC; subsequently, however, it was agreed that non-SADC forces should be included in the format.</p>
                    <p>In April 2020 the UN Secretary-General reported that the security situation in Ituri and North Kivu had recently deteriorated, characterized by an intensification of attacks by the ADF and other armed militants. Meanwhile, numerous human rights violations were attributed to both state and non-state actors, and intercommunal violence was persisting in Ituri, the Kivus and in Tanganyika. At the beginning of May the national Government imposed a `state of siege’ in North Kivu and Ituri, entailing martial law; MONUSCO offered its support to the DRC military in this context. A volcanic eruption at Mount Nyiragongo, near Goma (North Kivu), later in May, which caused several fatalities and displaced 20,000 people, complicated the security and humanitarian situation. In December the UN Secretary-General reported that high numbers of civilians were continuing to be killed, injured and displaced as a consequence of ongoing insecurity in Ituri; North Kivu remained volatile, with an intensification of attacks against civilians by armed groups. Violence had also escalated in South Kivu—where Mai-Mai elements had targeted local communities in tandem with an increase in illegal mining there. In that month the Security Council endorsed the vision outlined in strategy that had been developed jointly by MONUSCO and the DRC authorities to guide a progressive handover of MONUSCO’s tasks. </p>
                    <p>During 2021 the SRSG continued to engage with the country’s President, other political leaders and civil society actors, in particular to commence the preparations of credible, inclusive and peaceful elections, scheduled for 2023. On 30 June 2021 MONUSCO withdrew from the Kasaï provinces, in accordance with the 2020 strategy, although the mission was committed to provide support for key peacebuilding and stabilization efforts. In Ituri and North Kivu, where the security situation continued to deteriorate, MONUSCO attempted to support FARDC troops in countering persistent attacks by armed groups. A new strategic framework on the protection of civilians was approved by the mission in August 2021. In December the UN Security Council determined that MONUSCO’s troop ceiling should comprise 13,500 military personnel, 660 military observers and staff officers, 591 police and 1,050 personnel of formed police units, and agreed to the temporary deployment of up to 360 formed police unit personnel, as long as they were replacing military personnel. The mission was requested fully to account for child protection and gender considerations as cross-cutting dimensions across its mandate. MONUSCO and the UN DRC Country Team formulated plans for scaling up the Team’s presence and programme activities in areas that were to be vacated by the mission during its drawdown. On 30 June 2022 the mission withdrew from most of Tanganyika (where, notwithstanding some persistent Mai Mai activity, the security situation had reportedly improved; a small presence was to remain in the northern Nyunzu and Kalemie areas of the province). The mission thus retained a significant presence only in Ituri, North Kivu, and South Kivu. It was reported in late July that three MONUSCO peacekeepers had been killed during anti-UN protests in Butembo, North Kivu; the protesters accused the mission of failing to protect local communities from escalating violence between armed militias. In the following month MONUSCO strongly condemned an attack against mission premises in Goma, and urged restraint. A resurgence of M23 militancy in eastern DRC was reported during 2022-24. In December 2022 the UN Security Council requested the UN Secretary-General to submit options for adapting the configuration of MONUSCO’s civilian, police and military components. In February 2023, as part of the ongoing gradual withdrawal operation, MONUSCO terminated its presence in Mutwanga, North Kivu. In that month the Security Council condemned a rebel attack in the province that had destroyed a MONUSCO helicopter, killing its pilot. In March the Council commended MONUSCO’s stabilizing efforts, while strongly condemning the violent unrest being fomented by M23, the ADF, the Coopérative pour le développement du Congo and the Forces démocratiques de libération du Rwanda.</p>
                    <p>In May 2023 the SRSG appealed to the international community to provide assistance following devastating mudslides in Kalehe (South Kivu), that had swept away much of two local villages, causing at least 438 deaths; more than 5,000 people from the area were reported to be missing. During July-early August the SRSG undertook a tour of eastern DRC—visiting Goma, Bukavu, Uvira, Bunia and Beni and liaising with local administrators and communities. At the end of August MONUSCO stated concern over reports of fatalities that had occurred during the suppression by local security forces of an unauthorized anti-UN demonstration that had been organized in Goma.</p>
                    <p>In November 2023 the SRSG and the Congolese Vice-Prime Minister signed a disengagement plan for the withdrawal of MONUSCO. The plan, which had been formulated by a joint technical team, aimed to provide for an accelerated, gradual and orderly withdrawal of UN troops. The first phase of the drawdown was to commence at the end of December. Earlier in that month the UN Security Council approved Resolution 2717, incorporating the disengagement plan, which identified as strategic priorities for the mission the protection of civilians and supporting and strengthening state institutions and governance. MONUSCO personnel provided logistical support in several provinces prior to and during voting in the general election held in December at which Tshisekedi was re-elected to a second term of office as President. In January 2024 the SRSG confirmed that 2,000 UN troops would be withdrawn from South Kivu by the end of April, and that all remaining military personnel would leave the country by the end of that year. At the end of February the mission’s Kamanyola base in South Kivu was transferred to the DRC authorities. In North Kivu an intensification of M23 activities from January led to an escalation of hostilities and large-scale population displacement. MONUSCO collaborated with FARDC forces to counter attacks on Sake and Goma, and worked to establish safe routes for civilians fleeing violence and to support the delivery of humanitarian aid.</p>
                    <p>MONUSCO has implemented local strategies aimed at protecting civilians and promoting reconciliation and reducing community violence, has implemented projects aimed at supporting communities and reintegration, and has extended logistical, technical and financial assistance to support the efforts of the DRC authorities to bring those accused of war crimes to accountability. The mission regularly destroys small arms ammunition and remnants of war. It has supported the operationalization of a disarmament, demobilization, community reintegration and stabilization programme that was initiated by the DRC authorities in July 2021. It was reported in November 2022 that MONUSCO had rehabilitated more than 350 km of roads in Ituri, to support and protect local civilians. In March the mission completed the rehabilitation of an economically critical bridge in Beni, North Kivu. In February 2024 MONUSCO reported that the UN Joint Human Rights Office had recorded 5,273 human rights violations perpetrated in the DRC during 2023.</p>
                    <!--MONUSCO-FARDC rapid reaction force-->
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Operational Strength</heading>
                    <p>At 30 November 2023 MONUSCO comprised 12,562 troops, 156 military observers, 345 staff officers and 1,628 police officers. International and local civilian support staff totalled 2,130 as at 11 September.</p>
               </p-group>
               <!--~ within the authorized troop ceiling of 19,815-->
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Finance</heading>
                    <p>The authorized budget for the mission amounted to US&#160;$1,037m., for the period 1 July 2023-30 June 2024, funded from a Special Account comprising assessed contributions from UN member states.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-block>
     </int-org-entry>
     <int-org-entry id="IO-UN.PKO.14" iso="io-un.pko.14" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio mena">
          <int-org-entry-head>
               <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                    <org-entry-name>United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus</org-entry-name>
                    <abbr>UNFICYP</abbr>
               </int-org-name-group>
          </int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-block>
               <address-block>
                    <address type="POSTAL">
                         <verbatim-address>Nicosia, Cyprus</verbatim-address>
                    </address>
               </address-block>
               <!--www.unficyp.org-->
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="IO-UN.1610" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General and Chief of Mission</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Colin</forename>
                                        <surname>Stewart</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Canada</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
                    <dir-entry id="IO-UN.1610A" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Personal Envoy on Cyprus</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>María Angela</forename>
                                        <surname>Holguín Cuéllar</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Colombia</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
                    <dir-entry id="IO-UN.1611" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Force Commander</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Maj.-Gen.</title>
                                        <forename>Erdenebat</forename>
                                        <surname>Batsuuri</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Mongolia</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Establishment and Mandate</heading>
                    <p id="IO-UN.1612">UNFICYP was established in March 1964 by a UN Security Council resolution to prevent a recurrence of fighting between the Greek and Turkish Cypriot communities, and to contribute to the maintenance of law and order. The Force controls a 180 km buffer zone, established (following the Turkish intervention in 1974) between the ceasefire lines of the Turkish forces and the Cyprus National Guard. It is mandated to investigate and act upon all violations of the ceasefire and buffer zone, as well as to perform humanitarian functions, such as facilitating the supply of electricity and water across the ceasefire lines, and to promote a stable and calm environment. The UN Secretary-General’s good offices have supported the conduct of negotiations between the Greek and Turkish Cypriot leaders. In reports to the Security Council the UN Secretary-General has consistently recognized UNFICYP as being indispensable to maintaining calm on the island and to creating the best conditions for his good offices. The mission has the following sections: military; UN Police; civil affairs; and administration. Its mandate was extended in January 2024 for a 12-month period until 31 January 2025.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Activities, 2002-12</heading>
                    <p>In January 2002 a new series of direct talks between the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot leaders commenced, under the auspices of the UN Secretary-General’s Special Adviser. In November the UN Secretary-General submitted for consideration a document providing the basis for a comprehensive settlement agreement; following UN-facilitated negotiations the final draft of a proposed Foundation Agreement was agreed. This was subsequently approved by two-thirds of Turkish Cypriot voters in a referendum held in April, but was rejected by some 75% of Greek Cypriot voters. In July 2006, meeting under the auspices of the UN Secretary-General, the two leaders agreed on a set of principles and decisions aimed at reinstating the negotiating process. In March 2008 a further bilateral meeting mediated by the Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General (SRSG) approved the establishment of technical committees and working groups in preparation for detailed political negotiations. The leaders also agreed to the reopening, in the following month, of a crossing between the two communities at Ledra Street, Nicosia. Full negotiations on a political settlement for the island were inaugurated in September. By September 2010 the two leaders had met 84 times over the preceding two years. In October the Limnitis/Yesilirmak crossing point was reopened. The UN Secretary-General directly mediated a series of meetings held between November 2010 and March 2012, addressing in particular unresolved issues related to power sharing, contentious property ownership, territorial boundaries and citizenship. In April the Special Adviser of the Secretary-General indicated that, given near deadlock on progress, and pending advancement, the UN’s participation in negotiations would be reduced to the level of technical discussions and confidence-building measures.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>2013-19</heading>
                    <p>In May 2013 the Special Adviser of the UN Secretary-General hosted a meeting between the new Greek Cypriot leader, Nicos Anastasiades, and his Turkish counterpart, Derviş Eroğlu. Thereafter the Special Adviser met both leaders several times with a view to overcoming the impasse reached in the negotiations process. In February 2014 the two leaderships finally agreed a Joint Declaration and a roadmap to guide the negotiations, and, consequently, UN-mediated formal talks recommenced soon afterwards, in Nicosia. In October, however, accusing the Turkish Government of violating its maritime exclusive economic zone, the Greek Cypriot administration suspended its participation in the process. A new Turkish Cypriot President, Mustafa AkIncI, took office in April 2015, and in the following month the negotiations process—facilitated by the Special Adviser—was resumed. At the beginning of 2016 the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot leaders made an unprecedented joint New Year’s television address. In November they conducted substantial negotiations in Mont Pèlerin, Switzerland, under the auspices of the UN Special Adviser, where, for the first time, they addressed territorial issues. The UN Secretary-General reported that by the end of 2016 significant progress had been made in four thematic areas of the negotiations: the economy; governance and power sharing; property; and matters pertaining to the EU.</p>
                    <p>A Conference on Cyprus—with participation by the Greek Cypriot and Turkish leaders and also (as guarantor powers) by senior representatives of Greece, Turkey (now known as Türkiye), the United Kingdom, as well as of the EU—was initiated under UN auspices in Geneva, Switzerland, in January 2017, and reconvened in late June-early July (in Crans-Montana); however, the talks broke down over issues including the continued deployment to the island post-reunification of some 1,000 Greek and 30,000 Turkish troops, and the return of property to Greek Cypriot former residents of the north of the island. Nicos Anastasiades was re-elected as Greek Cypriot President in January-February 2018. Anastasiades and Mustafa AkIncI met informally, under UN auspices, in April; both leaders, however, emphasized that the meeting did not represent the resumption of the negotiations process. In July the UN Secretary-General requested the then UN Special Adviser on Cyprus, Jane Holl Lute, to initiate a series of consultations with the parties to the Conference on Cyprus, and in October he instructed her to pursue efforts to finalize terms of reference that would constitute a consensus starting point for the resumption of meaningful negotiations. During the latter month, under the auspices of the SRSG, President AkIncI and President Anastasiades met for the first time since April. In November two new border crossing points were opened, fulfilling a commitment that had been agreed, in May 2015, and bringing to nine the total number of crossing points on the island. Further meetings between Anastasiades and AkIncI were convened during February-August 2019 under the auspices of the SRSG. A trilateral meeting, of the two leaders and the UN Secretary-General, was held in late November.</p>
                    <!--Plus territorial issues and security and guarantees-->
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>2020-24</heading>
                    <p>Ersin Tatar succeeded AkIncI as the Turkish Cypriot President in October 2020. In that month, controversially, he partially reopened the Varosha (Maraş) beach quarter of the abandoned town of Famagusta, which had been fenced off as part of the buffer zone since 1974; this was denounced by the Greek Cypriot authorities. UNFICYP’s freedom of movement in the vicinity of Varosha was impeded. Following Tatar’s election, he and Anastasiades, meeting informally under UN auspices, agreed to participate in an informal meeting to be organized by the UN Secretary-General in a `5+1’ format—i.e. with participation by Anastasiades, Tatar, the guarantor countries Greece, Turkey and the UK, and the UN. In February 2021 President Tatar criticized as `unacceptable’ conditions that had been imposed by his Greek Cypriot counterpart in advance of the pending 5+1 meeting—including a demand to terminate the reopening of Varosha. The 5+1 meeting took place in Geneva at the end of April, but did not achieve sufficient process to enable the resumption of formal negotiations. In June, however, agreement was reached, facilitated by the SRSG, on harmonizing COVID-19 measures and requirements, enabling the reopening of crossing points that had been closed since early 2020. (The epidemiological situation was regularly assessed by a bicommunal Technical Committee on Health.) In July 2021 the UN Secretary-General protested a Turkish decision to lift `military status’ from a small area of Varosha. Jane Holl Lute resigned in August as UN Special Adviser on Cyprus. In December a new SRSG, Colin Stewart, took office. In January 2022 the UN Security Council expressed serious concern at ongoing violations of the ceasefire line, and stated regret over the lack of progress towards establishing an effective mechanism for direct bilateral military contacts. The UN Secretary-General stated concern in July that Türkiye was persistently undertaking provocative activities in territorial waters around Cyprus, in the fenced area of Varosha, and elsewhere in the border zone.</p>
                    <p>In October 2022 the Turkish Cypriot authorities demanded that UNFICYP formally recognize the `Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus’ (TRNC). In September 2023 Türkiye called for a written agreement between the TRNC and UNFICYP formally to delineate relations between the two. In July of that year the UN Secretary-General observed that the new Greek Cypriot leader, Nikos Christodoulides, elected in February, had asserted that resolving outstanding Cyprus-related issues was a priority. In December both sides approved the Secretary-General’s nomination for a Personal Envoy to advance the negotiation process; she took office in January 2024, and promptly met with both leaders. At that time the UN Secretary-General reported that thus far no action had been taken to end the reopening of Varosha.</p>
                    <p>
          UNFICYP has continued to patrol and to maintain security in the buffer zone, and to liaise with the opposing forces. In January 2024 the UN Secretary-General reported a marked recent increase in the frequency and severity of violations by both sides, including military and civilian encroachments into the buffer zone. A trend of repeated so-called `move forward’ violations in and around Nicosia by the Turkish 
          
          Cypriot forces, at times with weapons, was noted, and deemed a deliberate policy to challenge the northern ceasefire line. The UN Secretary-General reiterated concern at continuing unauthorized construction in the buffer zone. He noted that, since 2019, the Greek National Guard had deployed 327 prefabricated concrete firing positions at the southern ceasefire line (16 within the buffer zone); in the second half of 2023 the Greek National Guard had also developed a trench system there, comprising 11 concrete bunkers, and had installed closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras at 42 locations, bringing its total number of CCTV installations to 48. The Turkish Cypriot military, meanwhile had 11 prefabricated firing positions, and CCTV at 106 locations along the northern ceasefire line. The Secretary-General condemned assaults that had been perpetrated in August against UNFICYP personnel and vehicles that were attempting to block construction within the buffer zone, in the area around the bicommunal village of Pyla/Pile. (The Turkish Cypriot side had long demanded—and been refused—the right to build a road link between the northern village of Arsos/Yiğitler and Pyla/Pile.) Eventually, following intervention by the SRSG, the crisis de-escalated, and in October an understanding was reached between UNFICYP and the Turkish and Greek Cypriot sides that provided for civilian development, including the construction of roads and housing, in the Pyla/Pile area aimed at benefiting all communities. Subsequently, however, in view of continuing tensions, construction work was paused. The Secretary-General reported that, in the latter part of 2023, misinformation had been spread about alleged bias on the part of UNFICYP.
        </p>
                    <p>UNFICYP has supported demining programmes near the ceasefire line; remained in contact with local authorities to ensure access for Turkish Cypriots to health, educational and social welfare support; and promoted intercommunal civil society events, in support of bicommunal co-operation. The mission is tasked with assisting the work of six of 12 bicommunal technical committees that were established in 2008 to develop confidence building measures. In January 2023 the UN Secretary-General reported that the Technical Committee on Crossings had recently been revitalized.</p>
                    <p usage="mena">UNFICYP has also assisted with the implementation of the long-term Nicosia Master Plan—initiated in 1979 to enable both communities in Nicosia to co-operate in improving the city.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Operational Strength</heading>
                    <p>At 30 November 2023 UNFICYP had an operational strength of 748 troops, 49 staff officers and 69 police officers. International and local civilian support staff totalled 151, in 2018.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Finance</heading>
                    <p id="IO-UN.1613">The General Assembly appropriated US&#160;$56.4m. to the Special Account for UNFICYP to supplement voluntary donations in financing for the period 1 July 2023-30 June 2024.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-block>
     </int-org-entry>
     <int-org-entry id="IO-UN.PKO.16" iso="io-un.pko.16" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio mena">
          <int-org-entry-head>
               <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                    <org-entry-name>United Nations Truce Supervision Organization</org-entry-name>
                    <abbr>UNTSO</abbr>
               </int-org-name-group>
          </int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-block>
               <address-block>
                    <address type="POSTAL">
                         <verbatim-address>Government House, Jerusalem</verbatim-address>
                    </address>
               </address-block>
               <!--untso.unmissions.org -->
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="IO-UN.1615" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Head of Mission</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Patrick</forename>
                                        <surname>Gauchat</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Switzerland</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Establishment and Mandate</heading>
                    <p id="IO-UN.1616">UNTSO was established initially to supervise the truce called by the UN Security Council in Palestine in May 1948 and has assisted in the application of the 1949 Armistice Agreements. Its activities have evolved over the years, in response to developments in the Middle East and in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the Security Council. There is no periodic renewal procedure for UNTSO's mandate. UNTSO maintains liaison offices in Beirut, Lebanon; Ismailia, Egypt; and Damascus, Syria. Liaison with Tel Aviv (Israel) and Amman (Jordan) is conducted from the mission’s Jerusalem headquarters.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Activities</heading>
                    <p>UNTSO observers attach to and assist UN peacekeeping forces in the Middle East. The mission’s Observer Group Golan is currently active in supporting UNDOF (under that mission’s operational control) and its Observer Group Lebanon supports UNIFIL. In addition, the mission operates a number of outposts in the Sinai region of Egypt to maintain a UN presence there. UNTSO observers have been available at short notice to deploy to and form the nucleus of newly authorized peacekeeping operations.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Operational Strength</heading>
                    <p id="IO-UN.1618">At 30 November 2023 UNTSO had an operational strength of 143 military observers. International and local civilian support staff (in 2021) totalled 232.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Finance</heading>
                    <p>UNTSO expenditure is covered by the regular budget of the UN.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-block>
     </int-org-entry>
     <int-org-section id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="edio">
          <heading>United Nations Peacekeeping Operations and Observer Missions</heading>
          <p>A listing of all current and completed operations, in chronological order:</p>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.3" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Truce Supervision Organization</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNTSO</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.4">Mandated to supervise the peace agreements in Palestine. Activities are ongoing.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.5">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.6">May 1948-.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.7">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.8">Government House, Jerusalem.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.9" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNMOGIP</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.10">Established to help to restore peace in the disputed region of Jammu and Kashmir. Activities are ongoing.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.11">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.12">January 1949-.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.13">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.14">Rawalpindi, Pakistan (November-April); Srinagar, India (May-October).</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.15" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>First United Nations Emergency Force</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNEF I</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.16">Aimed to secure and supervise the withdrawal of foreign troops from Egyptian territory and the cessation of hostilities between Egypt and Israel, and to maintain peaceful conditions in the area.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.17">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.18">November 1956-June 1967.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.19">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.20">Gaza.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.21" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Observation Group in Lebanon</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNOGIL</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.22">Established to supervise the border between Lebanon and Syria, and, in particular, to ensure that there were no illegal crossings or supply of armaments.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.23">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.24">June 1958-December 1958.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.25">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.26">Beirut, Lebanon.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.27" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Operation in the Congo</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>ONUC</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.28">Established, initially, to oversee the withdrawal of Belgian forces and the maintenance of law and order. Also aimed to maintain the territorial integrity of the Congo and prevent civil conflict or interference by foreign troops. After the withdrawal of the UN military contingent civilian operations continued, under the authority of the UN Technical Assistance Board.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.29">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.30">July 1960-June 1964.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.31">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.32">Léopoldville, Republic of the Congo (now Kinshasa, the Democratic Republic of the Congo).</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.33" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Security Force in West New Guinea (New Irian)</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNSF</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.34">Mandated to maintain peace and security during the transitional period pending transfer of the territory (previously under Dutch rule) to Indonesia.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.35">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.36">October 1962-April 1963.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.37">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.38">Hollandia, West New Guinea (now Jayapura, Irian Jaya).</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.39" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Yemen Observation Mission</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNYOM</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.40">Established to observe the disengagement agreement and to secure the withdrawal of all foreign troops.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.41">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.42">July 1963-September 1964.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.43">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.44">San`a, Yemen.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.45" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNFICYP</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.46">Established to prevent further fighting between the Greek and Turkish Cypriot communities and to help to maintain law and order. Undertakes supervision of a buffer-zone and other humanitarian tasks. Activities are ongoing</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.47">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.48">March 1964-.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.49">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.50">Nicosia, Cyprus.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.51" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>Mission of the Representative of the Secretary-General in the Dominican Republic</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>DOMREP</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.52">Established to oversee a ceasefire between opposition movements.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.53">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.54">May 1965-October 1966.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.55">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.56">Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.57" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations India-Pakistan Observation Mission</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNIPOM</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.58">Established following the renewal of hostilities between India and Pakistan to supervise the ceasefire lines and the withdrawal of all armed personnel along the international border in areas outside Kashmir.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.59">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.60">September 1965-March 1966.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.61">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.62">Amritsar, India; Lahore, Pakistan.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.63" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>Second United Nations Emergency Force</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNEF II</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.64">Established after the Arab-Israeli war to supervise a full ceasefire. Following peace agreements concluded in January 1974 and September 1975 UNEF supervised the redeployment of Egyptian and Israeli forces and established buffer zones in the region of the Suez Canal and in the Sinai Peninsula.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.65">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.66">October 1973-July 1979.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.67">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.68">Ismailia, Egypt.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.69" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Disengagement Observer Force</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNDOF</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.70">Established, initially, to supervise the disengagement of Syrian and Israeli forces, to monitor the withdrawal of Israeli troops and to establish an area of separation in the Golan Heights. Activities are ongoing.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.71">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.72">June 1974-.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.73">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.74">Camp Faouar, Syrian Arab Republic (headquarters); Camp Ziouani, Israel (operational base).</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.75" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNIFIL</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.76">Mandated to oversee the withdrawal of Israeli forces from southern Lebanon and to consolidate peace and security in the region. Activities are ongoing.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.77">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.78">March 1978-.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.79">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.80">Naqoura, Lebanon.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.81" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Good Offices Mission in Afghanistan and Pakistan</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNGOMAP</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.82">Established to monitor the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan, as well as the non-interference and non-intervention of troops between Afghanistan and Pakistan, in accordance with a peace accord signed in April 1988.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.83">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.84">May 1988-March 1990.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.85">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.86">Kabul, Afghanistan; Islamabad, Pakistan.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.87" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Iran-Iraq Military Observer Group</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNIIMOG</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.88">Its principal tasks were to monitor compliance with the ceasefire agreement, supervise the withdrawal of troops to internationally recognized boundaries, and facilitate confidence-building and other measures to reduce tensions between the two sides.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.89">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.90">August 1988-February 1991.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.91">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.92">Baghdad, Iraq.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.93" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Angola Verification Mission I</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNAVEM I</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.94">Mandated to verify the redeployment of Cuban troops, and their phased and eventual withdrawal from Angola.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.95">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.96">January 1989-June 1991.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.97">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.98">Luanda, Angola.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.99" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Transition Group</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNTAG</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.100">Mandated to supervise democratic elections in Namibia and to ensure a peaceful transition to independence, in accordance with a UN Security Council resolution adopted in September 1978. The resolution was finally implemented in April 1989.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.101">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.102">April 1989-March 1990.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.103">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.104">Windhoek, Namibia.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.105" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Observer Group in Central America</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>ONUCA</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.106">Established to verify undertakings by five Central American Governments (those of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua) to cease aid to irregular forces, and to refrain from the use of the territory of one state for attacks on another.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.107">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.108">November 1989-January 1992.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.109">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.110">Tegucigalpa, Honduras.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.111" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Iraq-Kuwait Observation Mission</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNIKOM</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.112">Mandated to monitor the demilitarized zone along the border between Iraq and Kuwait.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.113">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.114">April 1991-October 2003.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.115">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.116">Umm Qasr, Iraq. (In March 2003 relocated on a temporary basis to Kuwait City.)</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.117" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>MINURSO</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.118">Responsible for the monitoring of a ceasefire, and for the organization and supervision of a referendum on the future of the disputed territory. Activities are ongoing.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.119">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.120">April 1991-.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.121">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.122">El-Aaiún, Western Sahara.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.123" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Angola Verification Mission II</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNAVEM II</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.124">Established by the enlargement of the original UNAVEM mandate to enable the mission to perform new verification tasks arising from Peace Accords. The mission also observed general elections, held in September 1992, under an enlarged mandate.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.125">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.126">June 1991-February 1995.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.127">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.128">Luanda, Angola.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.129" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Observer Mission in El Salvador</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>ONUSAL</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.130">Mandated to monitor agreements concluded between the Government and opposition FMLN forces in El Salvador, and, in particular, the Agreement on Human Rights.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.131">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.132">July 1991-April 1995.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.133">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.134">San Salvador, El Salvador.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.135" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Advance Mission in Cambodia</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNAMIC</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.136">
        Established to monitor the ceasefire, following the conclusion of a peace settlement between government and opposition factions. Absorbed into 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="UN-PEACE.EDIO.147">UNTAC</xr>
         (see below).
      </p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.137">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.138">October 1991-March 1992.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.139">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.140">Phnom Penh, Cambodia.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.141" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Protection Force</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNPROFOR</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.142">Established to ensure the withdrawal of Yugoslav forces from Croatia and the demilitarization of three Serbian-held enclaves. Its mandate was subsequently enlarged to ensure the safe delivery of humanitarian assistance within Bosnia and Herzegovina, the withdrawal of Yugoslav troops from the Prevlaka peninsula in Croatia, and the removal of heavy weapons from neighbouring areas in Croatia and Montenegro. UNPROFOR also monitored compliance with the prohibition on military flights in Bosnian air-space.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.143">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.144">March 1992-December 1995.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.145">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.146">Zagreb, Croatia.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.147" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNTAC</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.148">Mandated to organize and oversee democratic elections in Cambodia, and to supervise the administration of the country during the transitional period prior to the establishment of an elected government. Other duties included assisting the disarmament of Cambodian warring factions, the repatriation and resettlement of refugees, and the rehabilitation of the country's infrastructure.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.149">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.150">March 1992-September 1993.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.151">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.152">Phnom Penh, Cambodia.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.153" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Operation in Somalia I</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNOSOM I</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.154">Responsible for monitoring a ceasefire between the principal warring factions in Somalia, promoting a political settlement, and the distribution of humanitarian aid. In December 1992 the UN Security Council endorsed the dispatch of a multinational force, under US command, to create a secure environment for the provision of humanitarian relief. UNOSOM remained responsible for humanitarian assistance and the political aspects of efforts to establish peace in Somalia.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.155">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.156">April 1992-March 1993.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.157">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.158">Mogadishu, Somalia.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.159" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Operation in Mozambique</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>ONUMOZ</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.160">Established to facilitate implementation of a peace agreement, signed in October 1992, between the Government and opposition RENAMO movement, including verification of the cessation of hostilities, supervision of the separation, demobilization and disarmament of forces, co-ordination of humanitarian operations, and organization of general elections.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.161">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.162">December 1992-December 1994.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.163">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.164">Maputo, Mozambique.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.165" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Operation in Somalia II</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNOSOM II</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.166">Assumed control from the multinational force for the restoration and enforcement of peace, stability and law and order, as well as the rehabilitation of the country's political, economic and social structures and the enforcement of the disarmament of Somalia's principal conflicting factions.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.167">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.168">March 1993-March 1995.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.169">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.170">Mogadishu, Somalia.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.171" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Observer Mission Uganda-Rwanda</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNOMUR</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.172">Established to monitor the border between Uganda and Rwanda, in order to prohibit the illegal supply of military assistance to Rwanda.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.173">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.174">June 1993-September 1994.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.175">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.176">Kabale, Uganda.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.177" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Observer Mission in Georgia</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNOMIG</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.178">Established to monitor a ceasefire between Georgian and separatist Abkhazian forces. Under an enlarged mandate the mission was to monitor and verify implementation of a new agreement, signed in May 1994. It co-operated with troops from the Commonwealth of Independent States to facilitate the return of refugees and other displaced persons. </p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.179">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.180">August 1993-June 2009.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.181">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.182">Sukhumi, Georgia.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.183" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Observer Mission in Liberia</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNOMIL</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.184">Established to verify implementation of a peace agreement signed by the conflicting parties in Liberia, including a lasting ceasefire and the disengagement of forces.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.185">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.186">September 1993-September 1997.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.187">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.188">Monrovia, Liberia.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.189" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Mission in Haiti</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNMIH</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.190">Established to maintain order during the transition of power from the military authorities to Haiti's exiled President Aristide. Under an enlarged mandate the mission provided technical assistance and monitored national elections.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.191">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.192">September 1993-June 1996.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.193">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.194">Port-au-Prince, Haiti.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.195" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNAMIR</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.196">Mandated to monitor a ceasefire agreement, signed in August 1993 and to help to maintain peace and security during the transitional peace process until the establishment of a new government. Its mandate was enlarged in May 1994, following the eruption of ethnic violence, to establish secure humanitarian areas and provide security for relief operations.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.197">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.198">October 1993-March 1996.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.199">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.200">Kigali, Rwanda.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.201" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Aouzou Strip Observer Group</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNASOG</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.202">Established to verify the withdrawal of Libyan forces from the Aouzou Strip, in accordance with a decision of the International Court of Justice.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.203">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.204">May 1994-June 1994.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.205">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.206">Chad.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.207" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Mission of Observers in Tajikistan</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNMOT</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.208">Mandated to monitor a ceasefire agreement signed by the Tajik Government and opposition forces in September 1994, and subsequent peace accords, to facilitate the provision of humanitarian assistance, and to support the preparation of elections and the holding of a referendum.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.209">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.210">December 1994-May 2000.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.211">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.212">Dushanbe, Tajikistan.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.213" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Angola Verification Mission III</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNAVEM III</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.214">Mandated to supervise and monitor the terms of a new peace accord (the Lusaka Protocol) and to assist in the process of national reconciliation, reconstruction and mine-clearance.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.215">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.216">February 1995-June 1997.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.217">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.218">Luanda, Angola.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.219" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Confidence Restoration Operation in Croatia</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNCRO</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.220">Replaced UNPROFOR personnel in the disputed regions of Western Slavonia, Krajina, Eastern Slavonia and the Prevlaka peninsula, with the aim of enforcing a ceasefire, maintaining peace and freedom of movement, and monitoring the deployment of troops and weapons.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.221">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.222">March 1995-January 1996.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.223">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.224">Zagreb, Croatia.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.225" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Preventive Deployment Force</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNPREDEP</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.226">Assumed the functions of the UNPROFOR contingent in the former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia, with the objective of upholding the stability of the territory.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.227">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.228">March 1995-February 1999.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.229">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.230">Skopje, the former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia (now North Macedonia).</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.231" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNMIBH</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.232">Incorporated the UN International Police Task Force and a UN civilian office.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.233">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.234">December 1995-December 2002.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.235">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.236">Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.237" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Transitional Administration for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Sirmium</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNTAES</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.238">Established to supervise the demilitarization of the region and its reintegration into Croatia, over a two-year period.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.239">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.240">January 1996-January 1998.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.241">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.242">Vukovar, Croatia.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.243" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Mission of Observers in Prevlaka</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNMOP</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.244">Assumed responsibility from UNCRO for monitoring the demilitarization of the Prevlaka peninsula. </p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.245">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.246">January 1996-December 2002.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.247">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.248">Dubrovnik, Croatia.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.249" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Support Mission in Haiti</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNSMIH</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.250">Continued the UN's presence in Haiti, after the expiry of UNMIH's mandate, in order to assist the Government to maintain a secure and stable environment and to strengthen the national police force.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.251">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.252">July 1996-July 1997.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.253">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.254">Port-au-Prince, Haiti.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.255" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Verification Mission in Guatemala</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>MINUGUA</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.256">Dispatched as a military attachment to the UN Mission for the Verification of Human Rights in Guatemala (authorized by the UN General Assembly) to verify a ceasefire agreement signed between the Government and opposition forces.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.257">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.258">January 1997-May 1997.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.259">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.260">Guatemala City, Guatemala.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.261" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Observer Mission in Angola</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>MONUA</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.262">Succeeded UNAVEM III with responsibility for overseeing the remaining tasks of the Lusaka peace accord, including the demobilization of the opposition UNITA forces and reinstatement of state administration throughout the country.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.263">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.264">July 1997-February 1999.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.265">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.266">Luanda, Angola.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.267" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Transition Mission in Haiti</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNTMIH</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.268">Mandated to undertake specialist police training and to ensure the safety and freedom of movement of UN personnel working in the country.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.269">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.270">August 1997-November 1997.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.271">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.272">Port-au-Prince, Haiti.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.273" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Civilian Police Mission in Haiti</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>MIPONUH</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.274">Established to complete UNTMIH's mandate of providing training and other technical assistance for law enforcement bodies and to support the process of national reconciliation.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.275">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.276">December 1997-March 2000.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.277">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.278">Port-au-Prince, Haiti.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.279" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Civilian Police Support Group</org-entry-name>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.280">Established to monitor the activities of the Croatian police force and the welfare of populations returning to the Danube region following the withdrawal of UNTAES personnel.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.281">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.282">January 1998-October 1998.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.283">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.284">Vukovar and Zagreb, Croatia.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.285" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Mission in the Central African Republic</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>MINURCA</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.286">Assumed authority from a multinational force, with the aim of securing a peaceful environment, including the disarmament of rebel soldiers and other combatants, and of supporting preparations for legislative elections. Its mandate was enlarged in October 1998 to include support for the conduct of elections.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.287">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.288">March 1998-February 2000.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.289">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.290">Bangui, Central African Republic.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.291" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Observer Mission in Sierra Leone</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNOMSIL</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.292">Aimed to promote stability and security in Sierra Leone following the restoration of a democratically elected government, including monitoring the disarmament and demobilization of opposition forces and respect for human rights.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.293">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.294">July 1998-October 1999.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.295">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.296">Freetown, Sierra Leone.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.297" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNMIK</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.298">Established as the supreme legal and executive authority in the province of Kosovo and Metohija, following the withdrawal of Serbian security and paramilitary forces from the province and the subsequent suspension by NATO of its aerial offensive against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Activities are ongoing.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.299">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.300">June 1999-.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.301">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.302">Priština, Kosovo.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.303" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNAMSIL</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.304">Mandated to assist with the implementation of a peace accord signed by the Sierra Leone Government and rebel groups, to enforce a plan for the disarmament and demobilization of all former combatants and to facilitate the delivery of humanitarian assistance. Assisted the government to restore authority throughout the country, as necessary, to rebuild a national police force and to conduct democratic elections. </p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.305">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.306">October 1999-December 2005.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.307">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.308">Freetown, Sierra Leone.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.309" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNTAET</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.310">Established to exercise all judicial and executive authority in East Timor, following the organization by the UN of a popular referendum at which a majority of East Timorese voted in favour of independence for their territory.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.311">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.312">October 1999-May 2002.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.313">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.314">Dili, East Timor.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.315" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>MONUC</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.316">Mandated to assist with the implementation of a ceasefire agreement in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Succeeded from 1 July 2010 by the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO).</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.317">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.318">November 1999-June 2010.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.319">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.320">Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.321" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNMEE</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.322">Established to assist with the implementation of a ceasefire agreement between Eritrea and Ethiopia. </p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.323">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.324">July 2000-July 2008.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.325">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.326">Asmara, Eritrea; Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.327" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Mission of Support in East Timor</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNMISET</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.328">Mandated to support core administrative structures, provide interim law enforcement and security, and to assist the development of a national police force in newly independent Timor-Leste (East Timor). </p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.331">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.332">May 2002-May 2005.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.329">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.330">Dili, Timor-Leste.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.333" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Mission in Liberia</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNMIL</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.334">Mandated to support the implementation of the ceasefire accord agreed in June 2003 and Comprehensive Peace Agreement concluded in August by the parties to the conflict in Liberia, to assist with the development of an action plan for the disarmament, demobilization, reintegration and, where appropriate, repatriation of all armed groups and to undertake a programme of voluntary disarmament, to support the implementation of national security reforms, and to assist with the training of a national police force and the restructuring of the military.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.337">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.338">September 2003-March 2018.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.335">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.336">Monrovia, Liberia.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.336.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Operation in Côte d’Ivoire</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNOCI</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.339">Mandated to support the implementation of the Linas-Marcoussis ceasefire accord concluded in Côte d’Ivoire in January 2003 and to assist with the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration of rebel groups.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.342">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.343">April 2004-June 2017.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.340">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.341">Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.341.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>MINUSTAH</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.344">Mandated to assume control from a multinational interim force in order to restore law and order, in co-operation with a transitional government, to investigate human rights abuses and to prepare for new elections.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.345">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.346">June 2004-October 2017.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.347">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.348">Port-au-Prince, Haiti</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.349" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Operation in Burundi</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>ONUB</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.350">Established to monitor and uphold the Arusha Agreement to restore peace in Burundi and bring about national reconciliation.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.351">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.352">June 2004-December 2006.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.353">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.354">Bujumbura, Burundi.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.355" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Mission in Sudan</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNMIS</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.356">Established to support implementation of a Comprehensive Peace Agreement, signed by parties to the conflict in Sudan in January 2005, and to contribute to international efforts to provide humanitarian assistance and to protect and promote human rights.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.357">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.358">March 2005-July 2011.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.359">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.360">Khartoum, Sudan.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.361" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Integrated Mission in Timor-Leste</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNMIT</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.362">Established to support the Timor-Leste authorities with consolidating stability, promoting democratic governance and facilitating the process of national reconciliation. </p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.363">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.364">August 2006-December 2012.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.365">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.876">Dili, Timor-Leste.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO..877.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>African Union (AU)/UN Hybrid Operation in Darfur</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNAMID</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.877.2">Established to support implementation of the Darfur Peace Agreement and to assist the authorities with consolidating stability, promoting democratic governance and facilitating the process of national reconciliation. </p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.877.3">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.877.5">July 2007-December 2020.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.877.6">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.877.8">Zalingei, Central Darfur, Sudan.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.876.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Mission in the Central African Republic and Chad</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>MINURCAT</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.876.2">Established as part of a multi-dimensional presence to create a secure environment in north-eastern CAR and eastern Chad.</p>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.876.3">
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.876.4">September 2007-December 2010.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.876.6">
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p id="UN-PEACE.EDIO.877.1">N’Djamena, Chad.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>MONUSCO</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p>Succeeded the United Nations Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC), in July 2010. Activities are ongoing.</p>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p>July 2010-.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p>Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Interim Security Force for Abyei</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNISFA</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p>Established in June 2011. Activities are ongoing.</p>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p>June 2011-.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p>Abyei Town, Sudan.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Mission in South Sudan</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNMISS</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p>Succeeded the United Nations Mission in the Sudan (UNMIS) in July 2011. Activities are ongoing.</p>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p>July 2011-.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p>Juba, South Sudan.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Supervision Mission in Syria</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>UNSMIS </abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p>Established in April 2012 to observer a ceasefire between government and opposition forces and to monitor and support the implementation of a six-point peace plan.</p>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p>April-August 2012.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p>Damascus, Syria.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>MINUSMA</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p>Established in April 2013 to help to restore order in northern Mali, and to protect civilians, UN humanitarian personnel and cultural artefacts.</p>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p>April 2013-31 December 2023.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p>Bamako, Mali.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>MINUSCA</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p>Established in April 2014 to protect civilians and to support the political transition process in the CAR. Activities are ongoing.</p>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p>April 2014-.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p>Bangui, Central African Republic.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
          <int-org-entry-simple sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRY-SIMPLEREF">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>United Nations Mission for Justice Support in Haiti</org-entry-name>
                         <abbr>MINUJUSTH</abbr>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <p>Established to strengthen the Haitian National Police, to support the Haitian Government in enhancing the rule of law, to monitor, report on and analyse the human rights situation in Haiti, and to extend protection to civilians.</p>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Duration</heading>
                    <p>October 2017-October 2019.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Headquarters</heading>
                    <p>Port-au-Prince, Haiti.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-entry-simple>
     </int-org-section>
     <!--8.vi.24: 24,398 words (incl. Chron.)-->
</int-org-entry>