<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entryref id="SL609080" int-org-entrydtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="609079" slsdocid="601433" slsdocty="int-org-entry int-org-entrydtd"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
          
          <int-org-entry id="IO-UN.390" id-root="io-un.390" iso="io-un.390" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
               <int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                         <org-entry-name>General Assembly</org-entry-name>
                    </int-org-name-group>
               </int-org-entry-head>
               <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
               <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">UNITED NATIONS</alt-heading>
               <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb">United Nations</alt-heading>
               <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="edio">General Assembly</alt-heading>
               <int-org-block>
                    <p>The General Assembly, established under the UN Charter as the main deliberative organ of the UN, first met on 10 January 1946. It is the only UN organ composed of representatives of all the member states. Each delegation consists of not more than five representatives and five alternates, with as many advisers as may be required. It has specific responsibility for electing the Secretary-General and members of other UN councils and organs, and for approving the UN budget and the assessments for financial contributions by member states. It may also make recommendations (but not binding decisions) on questions of international security and co-operation.</p>
                    <p>The President of the forthcoming session of the General Assembly is elected in June. The regular session of the General Assembly commences each year in mid-September. An ensuing High-Level Week includes several high-level events and the Assembly’s annual General Debate, during which the Secretary-General presents his annual report on the work of the UN and the head of each delegation makes a formal statement of their government's views on major world issues. The Assembly then begins examination of the principal items on its agenda: it acts directly on some agenda items, but most business is handled by the six Main Committees, which study and debate each item and present draft resolutions to the Assembly. After a review of the report of each Main Committee, the Assembly formally approves or rejects the Committee's recommendations. On designated `important questions', such as recommendations on international peace and security, the admission of new members to the UN, or budgetary questions, a two-thirds’ majority is needed for adoption of a resolution. Other questions may be decided by a simple majority. In the Assembly, each member has one vote. In January 2024 the following countries were not entitled to vote in the Assembly, owing to non-payment of arrears to the UN’s regular budget: Afghanistan, Dominica, Ecuador, Liberia, Venezuela. (Where conditions beyond a state’s control are deemed to have prompted the arrears an exception on the voting suspension rule may be made; this was the situation for the Comoros, São Tomé and Príncipe, and Somalia.)</p>
                    <p usage="edio">Voting in the Assembly is sometimes replaced by an effort to find consensus among member states, in order to strengthen support for the Assembly's decisions: the President consults delegations in private to find out whether they are willing to agree to the adoption of a resolution without a vote; if they are, the President can then issue a declaration that a resolution has been so adopted.</p>
                    <p>Special sessions of the Assembly may be held to discuss issues which require particular attention, and `emergency special sessions' may also be convened to discuss situations on which the UN Security Council has been unable to reach a decision.</p>
                    <p>In September 2009 the General Assembly adopted, by consensus, its first resolution on the `Responsibility to Protect', promoting efforts to protect the world's population from genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and other crimes against humanity.</p>
                    <p>
          In September 2015 heads of state and of government convened in New York for a UN Summit to Adopt the Post-2015 Development Agenda. The meeting endorsed new Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), forming the basis of the UN’s 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UNDP.001">2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development</xr>
          .
        </p>
                    <!--Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism 2019 Special Summit on 2030 Agenda and the SAMOA Pathway. Political Declaration on Universal Health-->
                    <p usage="edio">A Declaration on the Commemoration of the Seventy-Fifth Anniversary of the United Nations, which was adopted in September 2020, at the start of the General Assembly’s 75th session, included the following 12 commitments for the future: (i) Leave no one behind; (ii) Protect our planet; (iii) Promote peace and prevent conflict; (iv) Abide by international law; (v) Place women and girls at the centre; (vi) Build trust; (vii) Improve digital co-operation; (viii) Upgrade the UN; (ix) Ensure sustainable financing; (x) Boost partnerships; (xi) Listen to and work with youth; and (xii) Be prepared.</p>
                    <p>On 28 February 2022 the General Assembly convened an emergency special session (the 11th since its inception) to address the Russian Federation’s recently initiated invasion of Ukraine. The meeting had been authorized by the UN Security Council following Russia’s veto of a draft Council resolution condemning the action. During February 2022-February 2023 the 11th emergency special session was resumed six times (entailing 19 meetings), and adopted six resolutions. On 2 March 2022 141 members of the Assembly voted in favour of a resolution that deplored the invasion and demanded that Russia fully and unconditionally withdraw all of its military forces from Ukrainian territory. A second resolution addressing the conflict’s humanitarian consequences was adopted later in March, and in April a third resolution suspended Russia’s participation in the UN Human Rights Council. In October the Assembly condemned Russia’s annexation of four regions of Ukraine, and in November it adopted a resolution that recommended the creation of an international register to document damages caused by Russia to Ukraine. On 23 February 2023 (the eve of the first anniversary of Russia’s invasion) it once again demanded Russia’s full and unconditional withdrawal (141 member states voted in favour—as at the beginning of the conflict, while Belarus, North Korea, Eritrea, Mali, Nicaragua, Russia and Syria voted against, and 32 states abstained).</p>
                    <p>In April 2022 the General Assembly adopted a landmark resolution to hold to account permanent members of the Security Council that use their veto—by convening a formal Assembly meeting each time to debate the relevant situation.</p>
                    <p>Notably the political leaders of four of the five permanent member states of the Security Council—the People’s Republic of China, France, Russia and the United Kingdom—did not participate in person in the High-Level Week held in September 2023 to launch the Assembly’s 78th session. The second quadrennial SDG Summit opened the Week, and was followed by a High-level Dialogue on Financing for Development, a Climate Ambition Summit, a High-level Meeting on Pandemic Prevention, Preparedness and Response, and a High-level Meeting on Universal Health Coverage. The theme of the General Debate at that time was `Rebuilding trust and reigniting global solidarity: accelerating action on the 2030 Agenda and its SDGs towards peace, prosperity, progress and sustainability for all’.</p>
                    <p>In October 2023, in view of the recent devastating escalation of violence, the Assembly resumed its 10th emergency special session (initiated in April 1997) relating to Illegal Israeli actions in occupied East Jerusalem and the rest of the Occupied Palestinian Territory. The Assembly adopted—with 120 votes in favour, 14 against and 45 abstentions—a resolution that called for an immediate and sustained humanitarian truce leading to a cessation of hostilities, and respect for international legal and humanitarian obligations. The resolution also demanded that Hamas (the Islamic Resistance Movement) release all hostages that it was holding, unconditionally and immediately. A further resolution, demanding an immediate humanitarian ceasefire, was adopted on 12 December, with 153 votes in favour, 10 against and 23 abstentions. On 10 May 2024, in the framework of the 10th emergency special session, the Assembly adopted a resolution that determined that the state of Palestine qualified for membership of the UN and therefore should be admitted to the organization. Accordingly, it was recommended that the Security Council reconsider the matter favourably. (The use by the USA of its veto, on 18 April, of a draft Security Council resolution recommending the admission of Palestine to the UN was deeply regretted by the Assembly.) Furthermore, on an exceptional basis, the Assembly decided to adopt a series of modalities to enable the participation of the state of Palestine in the sessions and work of the General Assembly and in international conferences convened by the UN. Some 143 member states voted in favour, 25 abstained, and nine voted against.</p>
                    <p>
          A Summit of the Future (see 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.344">Secretariat</xr>
          ) was to be convened in September 2024 during the High-Level Week at the commencement of the Assembly’s 79th session.
        </p>
                    <dir-list>
                         <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                              <dir-entry-name>President of 78th Session (from Sept. 2023)</dir-entry-name>
                              <person-group>
                                   <person>
                                        <person-name>
                                             <forename>Dennis</forename>
                                             <surname>Francis</surname>
                                        </person-name>
                                        <person-note>Trinidad and Tobago</person-note>
                                   </person>
                              </person-group>
                         </dir-entry>
                    </dir-list>
                    <int-org-section id="IO-UN.396" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Main Committees</heading>
                         <p id="IO-UN.397">There are six Main Committees, on which all members have a right to be represented. Each Committee includes an elected Chairperson and two Vice-Chairs.</p>
                         <org-list>
                              <org-entry id="IO-UN.398" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>First Committee</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">Disarmament and International Security</content-note>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry id="IO-UN.399" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>Second Committee</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">Economic and Financial</content-note>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry id="IO-UN.400" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>Third Committee</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">Social, Humanitarian and Cultural</content-note>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry id="IO-UN.401" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>Fourth Committee</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">Special Political and Decolonization</content-note>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry id="IO-UN.402" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>Fifth Committee</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">Administrative and Budgetary</content-note>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry id="IO-UN.403" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>Sixth Committee</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">Legal</content-note>
                              </org-entry>
                         </org-list>
                    </int-org-section>
                    <int-org-section id="IO-UN.416" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Assemblies and Councils</heading>
                         <p>The following are among the key subsidiary bodies of the General Assembly:</p>
                         <org-list>
                              <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>Council of the UN University</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <found-date>1973</found-date>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry id="IO-UNGA.495" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>Human Rights Council</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <found-date>2006</found-date>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">
                see under the 
                <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.1190">Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights</xr>
                 for further details
              </content-note>
                                   <stats>47 mems</stats>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>UN-Habitat Assembly</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <found-date>2019</found-date>
                                   <stats>all UN mem. states</stats>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry id="IO-UN.419" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>UN Environment Assembly</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <found-date>2014</found-date>
                                   <stats>all UN mem. states</stats>
                              </org-entry>
                         </org-list>
                    </int-org-section>
                    <int-org-section id="UNGA.IO.EXEC.BOARDS.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Executive Boards</heading>
                         <org-list>
                              <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>Executive Board of the UN Children's Fund</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <found-date>1993</found-date>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">composed of 36 mems</content-note>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>Executive Board of the UN Development Programme, UN Population Fund and UN Office for Project Services</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <found-date>1993</found-date>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">composed of 36 mems</content-note>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>Executive Board of the World Food Programme</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <found-date>1995</found-date>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">composed of 36 mems</content-note>
                              </org-entry>
                         </org-list>
                    </int-org-section>
                    <int-org-section id="UNGA.IO.2" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Commissions</heading>
                         <p>The General Assembly may establish Commissions to consider and advise on specific topics.</p>
                         <org-list>
                              <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>Advisory Commission on the UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA)</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <found-date>1948</found-date>
                                   <stats>mems: 29 mems and 4 observers</stats>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry id="IO-UN.409" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>Disarmament Commission</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <found-date>1978 (replacing body f. 1952)</found-date>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">formulates relevant consensus guidelines, principles and recommendations</content-note>
                                   <stats>61 mems</stats>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry id="IO-UN.429" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>International Civil Service Commission</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <found-date>1972</found-date>
                                   <stats>15 mems appointed for four-year terms</stats>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry id="IO-UN.421" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>International Law Commission</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <found-date>1947</found-date>
                                   <stats>34 mems elected for a five-year term</stats>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">drafted the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, which entered into effect in Jan. 1980 and provides a comprehensive framework of rules and guidelines to govern the drafting, interpretation and implementation of treaties concluded between states</content-note>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry id="IO-UN.423" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>UN Commission on International Trade Law </org-entry-name>
                                        <abbr>UNCITRAL</abbr>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <found-date>1966</found-date>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">in June 2018 approved the final draft of the Singapore Convention on Mediation, which was adopted in Dec. by the General Assembly</content-note>
                                   <stats>70 mems</stats>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>UN Conciliation Commission for Palestine</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <found-date>1948</found-date>
                                   <stats>3 mems</stats>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry id="IO-UNGA.789" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>UN Peacebuilding Commission</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <found-date>2006 as an intergovernmental advisory body, subsidiary simultaneously to both the General Assembly and the Security Council</found-date>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">mandated to focus sustained international attention on reconstruction, institution building and sustainable development in countries emerging from conflict; to advise on and propose integrated strategies for post-conflict recovery; to promote an integrated, strategic and coherent approach to peacebuilding—noting the close linkages between security, development and human rights; and to serve as a platform for all stakeholders</content-note>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">the Commission receives strategic advice and policy guidance from the Peacebuilding Support Office (f. 2005)</content-note>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">peacebuilding projects in countries on the Commission’s agenda are financed through a UN Peacebuilding Fund (established in 2009)</content-note>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">in Oct. 2019 a SALIENT (Saving Lives Entity) fund was established within the UN Peacebuilding Fund, with a focus on linking illicit small arms control to development</content-note>
                                   <stats>31 mem. states, of which 7 are elected by the UN General Assembly, 7 by the Security Council and 7 by ECOSOC, plus the top 5 contributors of assessed contributions to UN activities, and top 5 contributors of personnel to peace missions (in 2024: Bangladesh, Ethiopia, India, Nepal and Rwanda)</stats>
                              </org-entry>
                         </org-list>
                    </int-org-section>
                    <int-org-section id="IO-UN.404" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Other Committees</heading>
                         <p usage="edio">In addition to those listed below, there are also Committees for: Contributions; Conferences; Information; Investments; Programme and Co-ordination; Relations with the Host Country; the UN Population Award; UN Staff Pension; and the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People; as well as Special Committees for the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples; and to Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Palestinian People and Other Arabs of the Occupied Territories. The General Assembly has established several thematic Ad Hoc Committees, including: Administration of Justice at the UN; Announcement of Voluntary Contributions to the Programme of UNHCR; Announcement of Voluntary Contributions to UNRWA; and Criminal Accountability of UN Officials and Experts on Mission. Advisory Committees may also be established, as well as working groups and other entities.</p>
                         <org-list>
                              <org-entry id="IO-UN.411" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space</org-entry-name>
                                        <abbr>COPUOS</abbr>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <found-date>1959</found-date>
                                   <stats>102 mems</stats>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">has a Legal Sub-Committee and a Scientific and Technical Sub-Committee</content-note>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">in Dec. 2013 endorsed the establishment of an International Asteroid Warning Network and Space Mission Planning Advisory Group, to guide the global response to near-Earth object impact threats</content-note>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>Credentials Committee</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <found-date>1946</found-date>
                                   <stats>9 mems</stats>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">considers the legal representation to the UN of mem. states</content-note>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>Executive Committee of High Commissioner's Programme (UNHCR)</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <found-date>1959</found-date>
                                   <stats>102 mems</stats>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry id="IO-UN.405" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>General Committee</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <found-date>1946</found-date>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">reviews and makes recommendations on the progress of the General Assembly and its committees</content-note>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">composed of 28 mems, including the Assembly President, the 21 Vice-Presidents of the Assembly and the Chairs of the six Main Committees</content-note>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>High-level Committee on South-South Cooperation</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <found-date>1978</found-date>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">principal UN policymaking body on South-South co-operation</content-note>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry id="IO-UN.408" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations</org-entry-name>
                                        <abbr>C34</abbr>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <found-date>1965</found-date>
                                   <stats>34 appointed mems</stats>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry id="IO-UN.424" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>Special Committee on the Charter of the UN and on the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <found-date>1975</found-date>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">composed of all UN mems</content-note>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry id="IO-UN.414" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>Special Committee on the Implementation of the Declaration on Decolonization</org-entry-name>
                                        <abbr>C-24</abbr>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <found-date>1961</found-date>
                                   <stats>29 mems</stats>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry id="IO-UN.410" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>UN Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <found-date>1955</found-date>
                                   <stats>21 mems</stats>
                              </org-entry>
                         </org-list>
                    </int-org-section>
                    <!--~ UN Administrative Tribunal was abolished on 31.xii.2009 -->
               </int-org-block>
               <int-org-section id="UN.EDIO.2.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="edio">
                    <heading>General Assembly Resolutions</heading>
                    <heading-note>Adoption of Agreements, Conventions, Declarations, Protocols and other instruments</heading-note>
                    <p id="UN.EDIO.2.2">Note: Until 1976 resolutions of the General Assembly were numbered consecutively, with the session of the Assembly indicated in parentheses. Since that date (i.e. from the 31st regular session of the Assembly) a new numbering sequence has been established at the beginning of each session. Thus each resolution is numbered according to the session in which it was adopted, followed by its chronological position within that session. Resolutions adopted in special or emergency sessions are identified with an `S' or `ES', respectively.</p>
                    <!--L? Legal status legally binding -->
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.3">
                         <heading>Resolution 22 (I)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.4">Adopted 13 Feb. 1946. General Convention on Privileges and Immunities of the UN.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.5">
                         <heading>Resolution 54 (I)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.6">Adopted 19 Nov. 1946. Transfer to the UN of power exercised by the League of Nations under the International Agreements, Conventions and Protocols on Narcotic Drugs, including a Protocol amending the Agreements, Conventions and Protocols on Narcotic Drugs.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.7">
                         <heading>Resolution 84 (I)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.8">Adopted 11 Dec. 1946. Agreement between the UN and the Carnegie Foundation concerning the use of the premises of the Peace Palace at The Hague by the International Court of Justice (ICJ).</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.9">
                         <heading>Resolution 169 (II)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.10">Adopted 31 Oct. 1947. Agreement between the UN and the USA regarding the headquarters of the UN.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.11">
                         <heading>Resolution 179 (II)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.12">Adopted 21 Nov. 1947. Co-ordination of the privileges and immunities of the UN and of the specialized agencies of the UN, including the General Convention on Privileges and Immunities of the UN.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.13">
                         <heading>Resolution 211 (III)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.14">Adopted 8 Oct. 1948. International provisions for the control of certain drugs including a protocol bringing under international control drugs outside the scope of the Convention of 13 July 1931 for Limiting the Manufacture and Regulating the Distribution of Narcotic Drugs, as amended by the Protocol contained in Resolution 54 (I).</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.15">
                         <heading>Resolution 217 (III)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.16">Adopted 10 Dec. 1948. International Bill of Human Rights, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.17">
                         <heading>Resolution 260 (III)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.18">Adopted 9 Dec. 1948. Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.19">
                         <heading>Resolution 317 (IV)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.20">Adopted 2 Dec. 1949. Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Persons and of the Exploitation of the Prostitution of others.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.21">
                         <heading>Resolution 428 (V)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.22">Adopted 14 Dec. 1950. Statute of the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.23">
                         <heading>Resolution 630 (VII)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.24">Adopted 16 Dec. 1952. Convention on the International Right of Correction.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.25">
                         <heading>Resolution 640 (VII)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.26">Adopted 20 Dec. 1952. Convention on the Political Rights of Women.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.27">
                         <heading>Resolution 1040 (XI)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.28">Adopted 29 Jan. 1957. Convention on the Nationality of Married Women.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.29">
                         <heading>Resolution 1386 (XIV)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.30">Adopted 20 Nov. 1959. Declaration of the Rights of the Child.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.31">
                         <heading>Resolution 1514 (XV)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.32">Adopted 14 Dec. 1960. Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.33">
                         <heading>Resolution 1541 (XV)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.34">Adopted 15 Dec. 1960. Principles which should guide members in determining whether or not an obligation exists to transmit the information called for under Article 73e of the Charter, in respect of such territories whose people have not yet attained a full measure of independence.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.35">
                         <heading>Resolution 1653 (XVI)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.36">Adopted 24 Nov. 1961. Declaration on the Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear and Thermonuclear Weapons.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.37">
                         <heading>Resolution 1763 (XVII)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.38">Adopted 7 Nov. 1962. Draft Convention and draft Recommendation on Consent to Marriage, Minimum Age for Marriages and Registration of Marriages.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.39">
                         <heading>Resolution 1904 (XVIII)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.40">Adopted 20 Nov. 1963. Declaration on the Elimination of all forms of Racial Discrimination.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.41">
                         <heading>Resolution 1962 (XVIII)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.42">Adopted 13 Dec. 1963. Declaration of Legal Principles governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.43">
                         <heading>Resolution 2018 (XX)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.44">Adopted 1 Nov. 1965. Recommendation on Consent to Marriage, Minimum Age for Marriage and Registration of Marriages.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.45">
                         <heading>Resolution 2037 (XX)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.46">Adopted 7 Dec. 1965. Declaration on the Promotion among Youth of the Ideals of Peace, Mutual Respect and Understanding between Peoples.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.47">
                         <heading>Resolution 2106 (XX)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.48">Adopted 21 Dec. 1965. International Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Racial Discrimination.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.49">
                         <heading>Resolution 2131 (XX)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.50">Adopted 21 Dec. 1965. Declaration on the Inadmissibility of Intervention in the Domestic Affairs of States and the Protection of their Independence and Sovereignty.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.51">
                         <heading>Resolution 2200 (XXI)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.52">Adopted 16 Dec. 1966. International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, Civil and Political Rights and Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.53">
                         <heading>Resolution 2222 (XXI)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.54">Adopted 19 Dec. 1966. Treaty on Principles governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space, including the Moon and other Celestial Bodies.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.55">
                         <heading>Resolution 2263 (XXII)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.56">Adopted 7 Nov. 1967. Declaration on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.57">
                         <heading>Resolution 2312 (XXII)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.58">Adopted 14 Dec. 1967. Declaration on Territorial Asylum.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.59">
                         <heading>Resolution 2345 (XXII)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.60">Adopted 19 Dec. 1967. Agreement on the Rescue of Astronauts, the Return of Astronauts and the Return of Objects launched into Outer Space.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.61">
                         <heading>Resolution 2373 (XXII)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.62">Adopted 12 June 1968. Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.63">
                         <heading>Resolution 2391 (XXIII)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.64">Adopted 26 Nov. 1968. Convention on the Non-applicability of Statutory Limitations to War Crimes and Crimes against Humanity.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.65">
                         <heading>Resolution 2530 (XXIV)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.66">Adopted 8 Dec. 1969. Convention on Special Missions and Optional Protocol concerning the Compulsory Settlement of Disputes.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.67">
                         <heading>Resolution 2542 (XXIV)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.68">Adopted 11 Dec. 1969. Declaration on Social Progress and Development.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.69">
                         <heading>Resolution 2625 (XXV)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.70">Adopted 24 Oct. 1970. Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Co-operation among States in accordance with the Charter of the UN.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.71">
                         <heading>Resolution 2626 (XXV)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.72">Adopted 24 Oct. 1970. International Development Strategy for the Second UN Development Decade.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.73">
                         <heading>Resolution 2627 (XXV)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.74">Adopted 24 Oct. 1970. Declaration on the Occasion of the 25th Anniversary of the UN.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.75">
                         <heading>Resolution 2660 (XXV)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.76">Adopted 7 Dec. 1970. Treaty on the Prohibition of the Emplacement of Nuclear Weapons and other Weapons of Mass Destruction on the Seabed and the Ocean Floor and in the Subsoil thereof.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.77">
                         <heading>Resolution 2734 (XXV)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.78">Adopted 16 Dec. 1970. Declaration on the Strengthening of International Security.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.79">
                         <heading>Resolution 2749 (XXV)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.80">Adopted 17 Dec. 1970. Declaration of Principles governing the Seabed and the Ocean Floor, and the Subsoil thereof, beyond the Limits of National Jurisdiction.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.81">
                         <heading>Resolution 2777 (XXVI)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.82">Adopted 29 Nov. 1971. Convention on International Liability for Damage caused by Space Objects.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.83">
                         <heading>Resolution 2826 (XXVI)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.84">Adopted 16 Dec. 1971. Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and on their Destruction.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.85">
                         <heading>Resolution 2832 (XXVI)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.86">Adopted 16 Dec. 1971. Declaration of the Indian Ocean as a Zone of Peace.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.87">
                         <heading>Resolution 2856 (XXVI)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.88">Adopted 20 Dec. 1971. Declaration on the Rights of Mentally Retarded Persons.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.89">
                         <heading>Resolution 2902 (XXVI)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.90">Adopted 22 December 1971. Supplementary Agreement between the UN and the Carnegie Foundation concerning the use of the premises of the Peace Palace at The Hague by the ICJ.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.91">
                         <heading>Resolution 3068 (XXVIII)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.92">Adopted 30 Nov. 1973. International Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.93">
                         <heading>Resolution 3074 (XXVIII)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.94">Adopted 3 Dec. 1973. Principles of international co-operation in the detection, arrest, extradition and punishment of persons guilty of war crimes and crimes against humanity.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.95">
                         <heading>Resolution 3166 (XXVIII)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.96">Adopted 14 Dec. 1973. Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Crimes against Internationally Protected Persons, including Diplomatic Agents.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.97">
                         <heading>Resolution 3201 (S-VI)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.98">Adopted 1 May 1974. Declaration on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.99">
                         <heading>Resolution 3235 (XXIX)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.100">Adopted 12 Nov. 1974. Convention on the Registration of Objects launched into Outer Space.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.101">
                         <heading>Resolution 3281 (XXIX)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.102">Adopted 12 Dec. 1974. Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.103">
                         <heading>Resolution 3314 (XXIX)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.104">Adopted 14 Dec. 1974. Definition of Aggression.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.105">
                         <heading>Resolution 3318 (XXIX)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.106">Adopted 14 Dec. 1974. Declaration on the Protection of Women and Children in Emergency and Armed Conflict.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.107">
                         <heading>Resolution 3346 (XXIX)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.108">Adopted 17 Dec. 1974. Agreement between the UN and the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO).</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.109">
                         <heading>Resolution 3384 (XXX)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.110">Adopted 10 Nov. 1975. Declaration on the Use of Scientific and Technological Progress in the Interests of Peace and for the Benefit of Mankind.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.111">
                         <heading>Resolution 3447 (XXX)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.112">Adopted 9 Dec. 1975. Declaration on the Rights of Disabled Persons.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.113">
                         <heading>Resolution 3452 (XXX)</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.114">Adopted 9 Dec. 1975. Declaration on the Protection of all Persons from being subjected to Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.115">
                         <heading>Resolution 31/72</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.116">Adopted 10 Dec. 1976. Convention on the Prohibition of Military or any other Hostile Use of Environmental Modification Techniques.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.117">
                         <heading>Resolution 32/105</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.118">Adopted 14 Dec. 1977. International Declaration against Apartheid in Sports.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.119">
                         <heading>Resolution 32/107</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.120">Adopted 15 Dec. 1977. Agreement between the UN and the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD).</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.121">
                         <heading>Resolution 32/155</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.122">Adopted 19 Dec. 1977. Declaration on the Deepening and Consolidation of International Détente.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.123">
                         <heading>Resolution 32/156</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.124">Adopted 19 Dec. 1977. Agreement on Co-operation and Relationships between the UN and the World Tourism Organization.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.125">
                         <heading>Resolution S-9/2</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.126">Adopted 3 May 1978. Declaration on Namibia.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.127">
                         <heading>Resolution 33/73</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.128">Adopted 15 Dec. 1978. Declaration on the Preparation of Societies for Life in Peace.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.129">
                         <heading>Resolution 33/162</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.130">Adopted 20 Dec. 1978. Charter of Rights for Migrant Workers in Southern Africa.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.131">
                         <heading>Resolution 34/68</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.132">Adopted 5 Dec. 1979. Agreement governing the Activities of States on the Moon and other Celestial Bodies.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.133">
                         <heading>Resolution 34/88</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.134">Adopted 11 Dec. 1979. Declaration on International Co-operation for Disarmament.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.135">
                         <heading>Resolution 34/93</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.136">Adopted 12 Dec. 1979. Declaration on South Africa.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.137">
                         <heading>Resolution 34/146</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.138">Adopted 17 Dec. 1979. International Convention against the Taking of Hostages.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.139">
                         <heading>Resolution 34/169</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.140">Adopted 17 Dec. 1979. Code of Conduct for law-enforcement officials.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.141">
                         <heading>Resolution 34/180</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.142">Adopted 18 Dec. 1979. Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Discrimination against Women.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.143">
                         <heading>Resolution 35/46</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.144">Adopted 3 Dec. 1980. Declaration of the 1980s as the Second Disarmament Decade.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.145">
                         <heading>Resolution 35/55</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.146">Adopted 5 Dec. 1980. International Agreement for the Establishment of the University for Peace and Charter of the University of Peace.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.147">
                         <heading>Resolution 35/56</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.148">Adopted 5 Dec. 1980. International Development Strategy for the Third UN Development Decade.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.149">
                         <heading>Resolution 36/55</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.150">Adopted 25 Nov. 1981. Declaration on the Elimination of all forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination based on Religion or Belief.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.151">
                         <heading>Resolution 36/100</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.152">Adopted 9 Dec. 1981. Declaration on the Prevention of Nuclear Catastrophe.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.153">
                         <heading>Resolution 36/103</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.154">Adopted 9 Dec. 1981. Declaration on the Inadmissibility of Intervention and Interference in the Internal Affairs of States.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.155">
                         <heading>Resolution 37/7</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.156">Adopted 28 Oct. 1982. World Charter for Nature.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.157">
                         <heading>Resolution 37/10</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.158">Adopted 15 Nov. 1982. Manila Declaration on the Peaceful Settlement of International Disputes.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.159">
                         <heading>Resolution 37/63</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.160">Adopted 3 Dec. 1982. Declaration on the Participation of Women in Promoting International Peace and Co-operation.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.161">
                         <heading>Resolution 37/92</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.162">Adopted 10 Dec. 1982. Principles governing the use by states of artificial earth satellites for international direct television broadcasting.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.163">
                         <heading>Resolution 37/194</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.164">Adopted 18 Dec. 1982. Principles of medical ethics relevant to the role of health personnel, particularly physicians, in the protection of prisoners and detainees against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.165">
                         <heading>Resolution 39/11</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.166">Adopted 12 Nov. 1984. Declaration on the Right of Peoples to Peace.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.167">
                         <heading>Resolution 39/29</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.168">Adopted 3 Dec. 1984. Declaration on the Critical Economic Situation in Africa.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.169">
                         <heading>Resolution 39/46</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.170">Adopted 10 Dec. 1984. Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.171">
                         <heading>Resolution 39/142</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.172">Adopted 14 Dec. 1984. Declaration on the Control of Drugs-trafficking and Drug Abuse.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.173">
                         <heading>Resolution 40/33</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.174">Adopted 29 Nov. 1985. UN standard minimum rules for the administration of juvenile justice (The Beijing Rules).</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.175">
                         <heading>Resolution 40/34</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.176">Adopted 29 Nov. 1985. Declaration of Basic Principles of Justice for Victims of Crime and Abuse of Power.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.177">
                         <heading>Resolution 40/64</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.178">Adopted 10 Dec. 1985. International Convention against Apartheid in Sports.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.179">
                         <heading>Resolution 40/144</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.180">Adopted 13 Dec. 1985. Declaration on the Human Rights of Individuals who are not Nationals of the Country in which they live.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.181">
                         <heading>Resolution 40/180</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.182">Adopted 17 Dec. 1985. Agreement between the UN and the UN Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO).</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.183">
                         <heading>Resolution 41/65</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.184">Adopted 3 Dec. 1986. Principles relating to remote sensing of the earth from outer space.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.185">
                         <heading>Resolution 41/85</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.186">Adopted 3 Dec. 1986. Declaration on Social and Legal Principles Relating to the Protection and Welfare of Children, with special reference to Foster Placement and Adoption Nationally and Internationally.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.187">
                         <heading>Resolution 41/128</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.188">Adopted 4 Dec. 1986. Declaration on the Right to Development.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.189">
                         <heading>Resolution 42/22</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.190">Adopted 18 Nov. 1987. Declaration on the Enhancement of the Effectiveness of the Principle of Refraining from the Threat or Use of Force in International Relations.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.191">
                         <heading>Resolution 42/186</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.192">Adopted 11 Dec. 1987. Environmental perspective to 2000 and beyond.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.193">
                         <heading>Resolution 43/51</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.194">Adopted 5 Dec. 1988. Declaration on the Prevention and Removal of Disputes and Situations which may threaten International Peace and Security and on the Role of the UN in this Field.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.195">
                         <heading>Resolution 43/165</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.196">Adopted 9 Dec. 1988. UN Convention on International Bills of Exchange and International Promissory Notes.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.197">
                         <heading>Resolution 43/173</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.198">Adopted 9 Dec. 1988. Body of principles for the protection of all persons under any form of detention or imprisonment.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.199">
                         <heading>Resolution 44/25</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.200">Adopted 20 Nov. 1989. Convention on the Rights of the Child.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.201">
                         <heading>Resolution 44/34</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.202">Adopted 4 Dec. 1989. International Convention against the Recruitment, Use, Financing and Training of Mercenaries.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.203">
                         <heading>Resolution S-16/1</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.204">Adopted 14 Dec. 1989. Declaration on Apartheid and its Destructive Consequences in Southern Africa.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.205">
                         <heading>Resolution 44/114</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.206">Adopted 15 Dec. 1989. Principles that should govern further actions of states in the field of the `freezing' and reduction of military budgets.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.207">
                         <heading>Resolution 44/128</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.208">Adopted 15 Dec. 1989. International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights: Second Optional Protocol aiming at the Abolition of the Death Penalty.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.209">
                         <heading>Resolution S-18/3</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.210">Adopted 1 May 1990. Declaration on International Economic Co-operation, in particular the Revitalization of Economic Growth and Development of the Developing Countries.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.211">
                         <heading>Resolution 45/62</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.212">Adopted 4 Dec. 1990. Declaration of the 1990s as the Third Disarmament Decade.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.213">
                         <heading>Resolution 45/95</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.214">Adopted 14 Dec. 1990. Guidelines for the regulation of computerized data files.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.215">
                         <heading>Resolution 45/110</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.216">Adopted 14 Dec. 1990. UN standard minimum rules for non-custodial measures (The Tokyo Rules).</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.217">
                         <heading>Resolution 45/111</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.218">Adopted 14 Dec. 1990. Basic principles for the treatment of prisoners.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.219">
                         <heading>Resolution 45/112</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.220">Adopted 14 Dec. 1990. UN guidelines for the prevention of juvenile delinquency.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.221">
                         <heading>Resolution 45/113</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.222">Adopted 14 Dec. 1990. UN rules for the protection of juveniles deprived of their liberty.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.223">
                         <heading>Resolution 45/116</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.224">Adopted 14 Dec. 1990. Model Treaty on Extradition.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.225">
                         <heading>Resolution 45/117</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.226">Adopted 14 Dec. 1990. Model Treaty on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters and Optional Protocol concerning the Proceeds of Crime.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.227">
                         <heading>Resolution 45/118</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.228">Adopted 14 Dec. 1990. Model Treaty on the Transfer of Proceedings in Criminal Matters.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.229">
                         <heading>Resolution 45/119</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.230">Adopted 14 Dec. 1990. Model Treaty on the Transfer of Supervision of Offenders Conditionally Sentenced or Conditionally Released.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.231">
                         <heading>Resolution 45/158</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.232">Adopted 18 Dec. 1990. International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of their Families.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.233">
                         <heading>Resolution 45/199</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.234">Adopted 21 Dec. 1990. International Development Strategy for the Fourth UN Development Decade.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.235">
                         <heading>Resolution 46/59</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.236">Adopted 9 Dec. 1991. Declaration on Fact-finding by the UN in the Field of the Maintenance of International Peace and Security.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.237">
                         <heading>Resolution 46/91</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.238">Adopted 16 Dec. 1991. UN principles for older persons.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.239">
                         <heading>Resolution 46/119</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.240">Adopted 17 Dec. 1991. Principles for the protection of persons with mental illness and for the improvement of mental health care.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.241">
                         <heading>Resolution 46/151</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.242">Adopted 18 Dec. 1991. UN new agenda for the development of Africa in the 1990s.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.243">
                         <heading>Resolution 46/152</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.244">Adopted 18 Dec. 1991. Statement of Principles and Programme of Action of the UN Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Programme.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.245">
                         <heading>Resolution 47/5</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.246">Adopted 16 Oct. 1992. Proclamation on Ageing.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.247">
                         <heading>Resolution 47/68</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.248">Adopted 14 Dec. 1992. Principles relevant to the use of nuclear power sources in outer space.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.249">
                         <heading>Resolution 47/133</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.250">Adopted 18 Dec. 1992. Declaration on the Protection of all Persons from Enforced Disappearance.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.251">
                         <heading>Resolution 47/135</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.252">Adopted 18 Dec. 1992. Declaration on the Rights of Persons belonging to National or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.253">
                         <heading>Resolution 48/96</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.254">Adopted 20 Dec. 1993. Standard rules on the equalization of opportunities for persons with disabilities.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.255">
                         <heading>Resolution 48/104</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.256">Adopted 20 Dec. 1993. Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.257">
                         <heading>Resolution 48/134</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.258">Adopted 20 Dec. 1993. Principles relating to the status of national institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights (Paris Principles).</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.259">
                         <heading>Resolution 48/263</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.260">Adopted 28 July 1994. Agreement relating to the implementation of part XI of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.261">
                         <heading>Resolution 49/57</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.262">Adopted 9 Dec. 1994. Declaration on the Enhancement of Co-operation between the UN and Regional Arrangements or Agencies in the Maintenance of International Peace and Security.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.263">
                         <heading>Resolution 49/59</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.264">Adopted 9 Dec. 1994. Convention on the Safety of UN and associated Personnel.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.265">
                         <heading>Resolution 49/60</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.266">Adopted 9 Dec. 1994. Declaration on Measures to Eliminate International Terrorism.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.267">
                         <heading>Resolution 50/5</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.268">Adopted 18 Oct. 1995. Declaration in Commemoration of the 50th Anniversary of the end of the Second World War.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.269">
                         <heading>Resolution 50/6</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.270">Adopted 24 Oct. 1995. Declaration on the Occasion of the 50th Anniversary of the UN.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.271">
                         <heading>Resolution 50/48</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.272">Adopted 11 Dec. 1995. UN Convention on Independent Guarantees and Stand-by Letters of Credit.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.273">
                         <heading>Resolution 50/50</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.274">Adopted 11 Dec. 1995. UN model rules for the conciliation of disputes between states.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.275">
                         <heading>Resolution 51/59</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.276">Adopted 12 Dec. 1996. International Code of Conduct for public officials.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.277">
                         <heading>Resolution 51/60</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.278">Adopted 12 Dec. 1996. UN Declaration on Crime and Public Security.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.279">
                         <heading>Resolution 51/122</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.280">Adopted 13 Dec. 1996. Declaration on International Co-operation in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space for the Benefit and in the Interest of all States, taking into Particular Account the Needs of Developing Countries.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.281">
                         <heading>Resolution 51/162</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.282">Adopted 16 Dec. 1996. Model law on electronic commerce.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.283">
                         <heading>Resolution 51/191</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.284">Adopted 16 Dec. 1996. UN Declaration against Corruption and Bribery in International Commercial Transactions.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.285">
                         <heading>Resolution 51/210</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.286">Adopted 17 Dec. 1996. Declaration to supplement the Declaration on Measures to Eliminate International Terrorism of 1994.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.287">
                         <heading>Resolution 51/229</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.288">Adopted 21 May 1997. Convention on the Law of the Non-navigational Uses of International Watercourses.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.289">
                         <heading>Resolution 51/240</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.290">Adopted 20 June 1997. Agenda for Development.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.291">
                         <heading>Resolution 52/27</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.292">Adopted 26 Nov. 1997. Agreement concerning the Relationship between the UN and the International Seabed Authority.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.293">
                         <heading>Resolution 52/86</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.294">Adopted 12 Dec. 1997. Model strategies and practical measures on the elimination of violence against women in the field of crime prevention and criminal justice.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.295">
                         <heading>Resolution 52/158</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.296">Adopted 15 Dec. 1997. Model law on cross-border insolvency.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.297">
                         <heading>Resolution 52/164</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.298">Adopted 15 Dec. 1997. International Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.299">
                         <heading>Resolution S-20/3</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.300">Adopted 10 June 1998. Declaration on the Guiding Principles of Drug Demand Reduction.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.301">
                         <heading>Resolution 52/251</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.302">Adopted 8 Sept. 1998. Agreement on Co-operation and the Relationship between the UN and the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.303">
                         <heading>Resolution 53/2</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.304">Adopted 6 Oct. 1998. Declaration on the Occasion of the 50th Anniversary of UN Peacekeeping.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.305">
                         <heading>Resolution 53/101</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.306">Adopted 8 Dec. 1998. Principles and guidelines for international negotiations.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.307">
                         <heading>Resolution 53/144</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.308">Adopted 9 Dec. 1998. Declaration on the Right and Responsibility of Individuals, Groups and Organs of Society to Promote and Protect Universally Recognized Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.309">
                         <heading>Resolution 54/4</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.310">Adopted 6 Oct. 1999. Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (Resolution 34/180).</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.311">
                         <heading>Resolution 54/109</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.312">Adopted 9 Dec. 1999. International Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.313">
                         <heading>Resolution 54/263</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.314">Adopted 16 May 2000. Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child concerning the involvement of children in armed conflict, and Optional Protocol on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.315">
                         <heading>Resolution S-22/2</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.316">Adopted 12 June 2000. Declaration on state of progress of and initiatives for the future implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.317">
                         <heading>Resolution 54/280</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.318">Adopted 30 June 2000. Agreement to regulate the relationship between the UN and the Preparatory Commission for the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Organization.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.319">
                         <heading>Resolution 55/2</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.320">Adopted 8 Sept. 2000. UN Millennium Declaration.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.321">
                         <heading>Resolution 55/25</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.322">Adopted 15 Nov. 2000. UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime; two additional Protocols.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.323">
                         <heading>Resolution 55/59</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.324">Adopted 4 Dec. 2000. Vienna Declaration on Crime and Justice: Meeting the Challenges of the Twenty-first Century.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.325">
                         <heading>Resolution 55/153</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.326">Adopted 12 Dec. 2000. Articles on nationality of natural persons in relation to the succession of states.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.327">
                         <heading>Resolution 55/255</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.328">Adopted 31 May 2001. Protocol against the Illicit Manufacturing of and Trafficking in Firearms, their Parts and Components and Ammunition, supplementing the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.329">
                         <heading>Resolution S-25/2</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.330">Adopted 9 June 2001. Declaration on Cities and other Human Settlements in the New Millennium.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.331">
                         <heading>Resolution S-26/2</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.332">Adopted 27 June 2001. Declaration of Commitment on HIV/AIDS.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.333">
                         <heading>Resolution 55/278</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.334">Adopted 12 July 2001. Statute of the UN System Staff College in Turin, Italy.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.335">
                         <heading>Resolution 55/283</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.336">Adopted 7 Sept. 2001. Agreement concerning the relationship between the UN and the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.337">
                         <heading>Resolution 56/6</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.338">Adopted 9 Nov. 2001. Global Agenda for Dialogue among Civilizations.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.339">
                         <heading>Resolution 57/2</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.340">Adopted 16 Sept. 2002. UN Declaration on the New Partnership for Africa's Development.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.341">
                         <heading>Resolution 57/18</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.342">Adopted 19 Nov. 2002. Model Law of the UN Nations Commisson on International Trade Law on International Commercial Conciliation.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.343">
                         <heading>Resolution 57/199</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.344">Adopted 18 Dec. 2002. Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment: Optional Protocol. </p>
                         <!--Driftnet fishing-->
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.345">
                         <heading>Resolution 58/4</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.346">Adopted 31 Oct. 2003. UN Convention against Corruption.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.2.347">
                         <heading>Resolution 58/232</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.2.348">Adopted 23 Dec. 2003. Agreement between the UN and the World Tourism Organization.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.GA.RES.100">
                         <heading>Resolution 59/38</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.GA.RES.101">Adopted 2 Dec. 2004. Convention on Jurisdictional Immunities of States and their Property.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.GA.RES.102">
                         <heading>Resolution 59/280</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.GA.RES.103">Adopted 8 March 2005. UN Declaration on Human Cloning.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.GA.RES.104">
                         <heading>Resolution 59/290</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.GA.RES.105">Adopted 13 April 2005. International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.GA.RES.106">
                         <heading>Resolution 60/21</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.GA.RES.107">Adopted 23 Nov. 2005. UN Convention on the Use of Electronic Communications in International Contracts.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.GA.RES.108">
                         <heading>Resolution 60/42</heading>
                         <p id="UN.EDIO.GA.RES.109">Adopted 8 Dec. 2005. Convention on the Safety of UN and Associated Personnel: Optional Protocol.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="UN.EDIO.GA.RES.110">
                         <heading>Resolution 60/147</heading>
                         <p id="IO-UN.EDIO.GA.RES.111">Adopted 16 Dec. 2005. Basic Principles and Guidelines on the Right to a Remedy and Reparation for Victims of Gross Violations of International Human Rights Law and Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="IO-UN.EDIO.GA.RES.112">
                         <heading>Resolution 60/262</heading>
                         <p id="IO-UN.EDIO.GA.RES.113">Adopted 2 June 2006. Political Declaration on HIV/AIDS.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="IO-UN.EDIO.GA.RES.114">
                         <heading>Resolution 61/1</heading>
                         <p id="IO-UN.EDIO.GA.RES.115">Adopted 19 Sept. 2006. Declaration of the High-level Meeting of the 61st session of the General Assembly on the mid-term comprehensive global review of the implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2001-10.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="IO-UN.EDIO.GA.RES.116">
                         <heading>Resolution 61/106</heading>
                         <p id="IO-UN.EDIO.GA.RES.117">Adopted 13 Dec. 2006. Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="IO-UN.EDIO.GA.RES.118">
                         <heading>Resolution 61/177</heading>
                         <p id="IO-EDIO.GA.RES.119">Adopted 20 Dec. 2006. International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="IO-UN.EDIO.GA.RES.120">
                         <heading>Resolution 61/295</heading>
                         <p id="IO-UN.EDIO.GA.RES.121">Adopted 13 Sept. 2007. UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="IO-UN.EDIO.GA.RES.122">
                         <heading>Resolution 62/88</heading>
                         <p id="IO-UN.EDIO.GA.RES.123">Adopted 13 Dec. 2007. Declaration of the Commemorative High-level Plenary Meeting devoted to the follow-up to the outcome of the Special Session on Children.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="IO-UN.EDIO.GA.RES.124">
                         <heading>Resolution 63/1</heading>
                         <p id="IO-UN.EDIO.GA.RES.125">Adopted 22 Sept. 2008. Political Declaration on Africa's Development Needs.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="IO-UN.EDIO.GA.RES.126">
                         <heading>Resolution 63/2</heading>
                         <p id="IO-UN.EDIO.GA.RES.127">Adopted 3 Oct. 2008. Declaration of the High-level Meeting on the mid-term review of the AlmatI Programme of Action.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="IO-UN.EDIO.GA.RES.128">
                         <heading>Resolution 63/177</heading>
                         <p id="IO-UN.EDIO.GA.RES.129">Adopted 10 Dec. 2008. Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="IO-UN.EDIO.GA.RES.130">
                         <heading>Resolution 63/122</heading>
                         <p id="IO-UN.EDIO.GA.RES.131">Adopted 11 Dec. 2008. UN Convention on Contracts for the International Carriage of Goods Wholly or Partly by Sea.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group id="IO-UN.EDIO.GA.RES.132">
                         <heading>Resolution 63/303</heading>
                         <p id="IO-UN.EDIO.GA.RES.133">Adopted 9 July 2009. Outcome of the Conference on the World Financial and Economic Crisis and its Impact on Development.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 64/292</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 28 July 2010. Recognized access to water and sanitation as a human right.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 64/257</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 9 April 2010. Observation of 65th Anniversary of the End of the Second World War.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 64/293</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 30 July 2010. UN Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 65/230</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 21 Dec. 2010. Salvador Declaration on Comprehensive Strategies for Global Challenges: Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Systems and Their Development in a Changing World.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 65/276</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 10 May 2011. Participation of the European Union in the work of the UN.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 65/277</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 10 June 2011. Political Declaration on HIV and AIDS: Intensifying Our Efforts to Eliminate HIV and AIDS.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 66/2</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 19 Sept. 2011. Political Declaration of the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 66/3</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 22 Sept. 2011. Political Declaration of the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly to commemorate the 10th anniversary of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action `United against racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance’.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 66/136</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 9 Dec. 2011. Declaration on the 50th Anniversary of Human Space Flight and the 50th Anniversary of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 66/137</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 19 Dec. 2011. UN Declaration on Human Rights Education and Training.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 66/138</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 19 Dec. 2011. 66th Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on a Communications Procedure.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 66/288</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 27 July 2012. The Future We Want (outcome document of the UN Conference on Sustainable Development).</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 66/290</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 10 Sept. 2012. Follow-up to paragraph 143 on human security of the 2005 World Summit Outcome.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 67/1</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 24 Sept. 2012. Declaration of the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the Rule of Law at the National and International Levels.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 67/L-58</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 2 April 2013. Arms Trade Treaty.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 67/259</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 26 April 2013. Declaration on the peaceful resolution of conflicts in Africa.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 68/4</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 3 Oct. 2013. Declaration of the High-level Dialogue on International Migration and Development.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 68/163</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 18 Dec. 2013. On the safety of journalists and the issue of impunity.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 68/167</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 18 Dec. 2013. Principles relating to the right to privacy in the digital age.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 68/196</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 18 Dec. 2013. Lima Declaration on Alternative Development.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 68/262</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 24 March 2014. On the territorial integrity of Ukraine; called on states, international organizations and specialized agencies not to recognize any change in the status of Crimea or the Black Sea port city of Sevastopol, and called on states to desist and refrain from actions aimed at disrupting Ukraine’s national unity.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 69/2</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 22 Sept. 2014. Outcome document of the World Conference on Indigenous Peoples (a High-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly).</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 69/15</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 14 Nov. 2014. The Small Island Developing States Accelerated Modalities of Action (SAMOA) Pathway.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 69/116</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 10 Dec. 2014. UN Convention on Transparency in Treaty-based Investor-State Arbitration.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 69/137</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 12 Dec. 2014. Vienna Programme of Action for Landlocked Developing Countries for the Decade 2014-24.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 69/216</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 19 December 2014. Towards the sustainable development of the Caribbean Sea for present and future generations. Recognized the Sea as an area of unique biodiversity with a highly fragile ecosystem, the conservation of which required co-operation from development partners. </p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 69/L-71</heading>
                         <p>
            Adopted 21 May 2015. On saving the cultural heritage of Iraq. 
            
            Condemned and demanded an immediate stop to the destruction and looting of the cultural heritage of Iraq carried out by Islamic State; affirmed that intentional attacks on sites dedicated to education, science, art, religion, or charitable purposes, and on historic monuments, may amount to war crimes.
          </p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 69/277</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 5 May 2015. Political declaration on strengthening co-operation between the UN and regional and subregional organizations.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 69/283</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 3 June 2015. Sendai Declaration for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-30.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 69/313</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 17 July 2015. Addis Ababa Action Agenda of the Third International Conference on Financing for Development (Addis Ababa Action Agenda).</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 69/320</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 10 Sept. 2015. Agreed that the flags of non-member observer states maintaining permanent observer missions at UN Headquarters should be raised at UN Headquarters and other UN offices alongside the flags of member states.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 70/1</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 25 Sept. 2015. Transforming Our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (the outcome document of the UN Summit to Adopt the Post-2015 Development Agenda).</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 70/3</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 23 Oct. 2015. Declaration on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the UN.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 70/57</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 7 Dec. 2015. Universal Declaration on the Achievement of a Nuclear Weapon-Free World.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 70/125</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 16 Dec. 2015. Outcome document of the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the overall review of the implementation of the outcomes of the World Summit on the Information Society.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 70/174</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 17 Dec. 2015. The Doha Declaration on Integrating Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 70/175</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 17 Dec. 2015. UN Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners (the Nelson Mandela Rules).</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 70/186</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 22 Dec. 2015. UN Guidelines for Consumer Protection (2015 revision).</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 70/254</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 12 Feb. 2016. Welcomed the UN Secretary-General's Plan of Action to Prevent Violent Extremism; recognized that violent extremism should not be associated with any religion, nationality, civilization or ethnic group.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution S-30/1</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 19 April 2016. Joint Commitment to Effectively Addressing and Countering the World Drug Problem.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution A/70/L.52</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 8 June 2016. Political Declaration on HIV and AIDS: On the Fast-Track to Accelerate the Fight Against HIV and to End the AIDS Epidemic by 2030.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 71/1</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 19 Sept. 2016. New York Declaration for Refugees and Migrants.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 71/1</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 21 Sept. 2016. Political Declaration of the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on Antimicrobial Resistance.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 71/151</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 13 Dec. 2016. Recommended that the Assembly’s Sixth Committee establish a working group tasked with finalizing the process of drafting a Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 71/189</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 19 Dec. 2016. Declaration on the Right to Peace.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 71/L.66</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 15 June 2017. Endorsed the establishment of a UN Office of Counter-Terrorism.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 72/1</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 27 Sept. 2017. Political Declaration on the implementation of the UN Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution ES-10.L.22</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 21 Dec. 2017. Status of Jerusalem. Declared actions to designate Jerusalem as Israel's capital as null and void.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 72/L.49</heading>
                         <p>
            Adopted 26 April 2018. Follow-up to the UN Secretary-General’s report (issued in Jan. 2018) titled 
            <publ-name>Peacebuilding and sustaining peace</publ-name>
            .
          </p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 72/277</heading>
                         <p>10 May 2018. Towards a Global Pact for the Environment.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 72/279</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 31 May 2018. Repositioning of the UN development system in the context of the Quadrennial Comprehensive Policy Review of operational activities for development of the UN system.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution ES-10/20</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 13 June 2018. Protection of the Palestinian civilian population.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 73/2</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 3 Oct. 2018. Political Declaration of the Third High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the Prevention and Control of Non-Communicable Diseases.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 73/3</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 10 Oct. 2018. Political Declaration of the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the fight against tuberculosis.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 73/151</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 17 Dec. 2018. Global Compact on Refugees.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 73/165</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 17 Dec. 2018. UN Declaration on the Rights of Peasants and Other People Working in Rural Areas.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 73/195</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 19 Dec. 2018. Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 73/198</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 20 Dec. 2018. UN Convention on International Settlement Agreements Resulting from Mediation (the `Singapore Convention on Mediation’).</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 73/239</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 20 Dec. 2018. Decided to dissolve the UN-Habitat Governing Council as a subsidiary organ of the General Assembly and to replace it with the UN-Habitat Assembly.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 73/291</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 15 April 2019. Buenos Aires Outcome Document on the Second High-level UN Conference on South-South Cooperation</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 73/295</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 22 May 2019. Endorsed the (Feb. 2019) Advisory Opinion of the ICJ on the legal consequences of the separation of the Chagos Archipelago from Mauritius in 1965, and called on the United Kingdom to withdraw its `colonial administration’ from the Chagos islands by 22 November 2019 (this deadline was ignored by the UK Government).</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 74/2</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 10 Oct. 2019. Political Declaration of the High-level Meeting on Universal Health Coverage.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 74/270</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 2 April 2020. Global Solidarity to Fight the Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19). Noted the unprecedented consequences of the pandemic, including severe disruption to societies, economies, commerce, global travel, and devastating impacts on human livelihoods. Recognized that the poorest and most vulnerable were being hardest hit economically by the pandemic crisis, and that it would reverse hard-won development gains. Recognized the central role of the UN in catalyzing and co-ordinating the global response to the crisis. Encouraged all countries to combat COVID-19 collectively through the exchange of information, scientific knowledge and best practices, and the application of relevant WHO recommendations.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 74/273</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 20 April 2020. Called on UN member states to investigate, arrest, prosecute or extradite all remaining fugitives from justice accused of genocide.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 74/274</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 20 April 2020. International Co-operation to Ensure Global Access to Medicines, Vaccines and Medical Equipment to Face COVID-19.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 74/306</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 11 Sept. 2020. On a comprehensive and co-ordinated response to the COVID-19 pandemic.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 74/307</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 11 Sept. 2020. United response against global health threats: combating COVID-19.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution A/75/L.1</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 21 Sept. 2020. Declaration on the Commemoration of the Seventy-Fifth Anniversary of the United Nations.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 75/17</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 1 Dec. 2020. Called for international co-operation to resolve challenges posed by the COVID-19 crisis to seafarers and to global supply chains.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 75/27</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 7 Dec. 2020. Called for the first International Day of Epidemic Preparedness to be observed on 27 Dec.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 75/176</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 16 Dec. 2020. Further considerations on the right to privacy in the digital age, including relating to advancements in the development of artificial intelligence.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 75/203</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 21 Dec. 2020. International Trade and Development: stressed the urgent need to combat all forms of trade protectionism, and to reverse all trade-distorting measures that are inconsistent with World Trade Organization rules; also—in the context of the COVID-19 crisis—reaffirmed the critical importance of safeguarding global supply chains.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 75/205</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 21 Dec. 2020. External Debt Sustainability and Development: emphasized the importance of extending assistance (such as the suspension of debt service payments) to developing states, in the context of the COVID-19 crisis.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 75/225</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 21 Dec. 2020. Towards a New International Economic Order: urged member states and international institutions to increase financial liquidity, and called for expanded access to concessional finance, to address the COVID-19 crisis.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 75/273</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 28 April 2021. Global Drowning Prevention.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 75/278</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 18 May 2021. Declaring the Aral Sea region a zone of ecological innovations and technologies.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 75/284</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 8 June 2021. Political Declaration on HIV and AIDS: Ending Inequalities and Getting on Track to End AIDS by 2030.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 75/286</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 18 June 2021. Appointed António Guterres to a second term as UN Secretary-General, to commence on 1 Jan. 2022 and to end on 31 Dec. 2026.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 75/314</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 2 Aug. 2021. Operationalization of a Permanent Forum on People of African Descent.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 76/7</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 22 Nov. 2021. Political Declaration on the Implementation of the UN Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution ES-11/1</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 2 March 2022. Demanded that Russia immediately cease its use of force against, and withdraw unconditionally and completely from Ukraine, within that country’s internationally recognized borders. Demanded also that Russia refrain from any further unlawful threat or use of force against any member state. Deplored Russia’s decision of 21 Feb. related to the status of certain areas of Donetsk and Luhansk (Ukraine). Called upon all parties to abide by the Minsk Agreements (concluded, under OSCE auspices, in 2014-15 as a means of achieving a peaceful settlement of the conflict in Ukraine). (Belarus, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Eritrea, Russia and the Syrian Arab Republic voted against the resolution, and 35 countries abstained.)</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution ES-11/2</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 24 March 2022. Humanitarian consequences of the aggression against Ukraine.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 76/258</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 1 April 2022. Endorsed the Doha Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries (adopted on 17 March by the Fifth UN Conference on the Least Developed Countries).</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution ES-11/3</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 7 April 2022. Suspension of the rights of membership of the Russian Federation in the UN Human Rights Council.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 76/262</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 26 April 2022. Standing mandate for a General Assembly debate when a veto is cast in the Security Council. Determined that, within 10 working days of a veto being cast by one or more permanent members of the UN Security Council, the General Assembly President should convene a formal meeting to debate the relevant situation (unless the situation was already the focus of an emergency special session of the Assembly).</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 76/264</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 23 May 2022. State of World Food Insecurity.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 76/266</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 7 June 2022. Progress Declaration of the International Migration Review Forum.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 76/L.75</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 28 July 2022. The human right to a clean, healthy and sustainable environment.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 76/L.86</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 7 Sept. 2022. Decided to establish a UN Youth Office, within the UN Secretariat.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 76/L.87</heading>
                         <p>
            Adopted 8 Sept. 2022. Determined that a UN Summit of the Future would be held on 22-23 Sept. 2024, themed `Multilateral solutions for a better tomorrow’, with a view to, 
            <i>inter alia</i>
            , reaffirming the UN Charter and reinvigorating multilateralism.
          </p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution ES-11/4</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 12 Oct. 2022. Called on member states not to recognize Russia’s annexation of four eastern Ukrainian regions. (Five countries—Belarus, Nicaragua, North Korea, Russia and the Syrian Arab Republic—voted against, 35 countries abstained, and 143 voted in favour.)</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution ES-11/5</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 14 Nov. 2022. Recommended the creation of an international register to document damages caused by Russia to Ukraine.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 77/131</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 12 Dec. 2022. Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the specialized agencies and the international institutions associated with the UN.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 77/247</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 30 Dec. 2022. Demanded that Israel immediately halt the ongoing construction of a wall in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, and make reparations for all damage caused by that project. Called on Israel to cease its imposition of prolonged closures and restrictions, including those amounting to a blockade on the Gaza Strip. Requested an Advisory Opinion of the ICJ on: (a) the legal consequences arising from Israel’s violation of the right of the Palestinian people to self-determination; prolonged occupation (since 1967), settlement and annexation of Palestinian territory—including the imposition of measures aimed at altering the demographic character of Jerusalem; and from Israel’s adoption of related discriminatory legislation and measures; and (b) how Israeli policies and practices affect the legal status of the occupation, and the legal consequences arising therefrom for all states and for the UN.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution ES-11/6</heading>
                         <p>
            Adopted 23 Feb. 2023. Endorsed a text titled 
            <publ-name>Principles of the Charter of the United Nations underlying a comprehensive, just and lasting peace in Ukraine,</publ-name>
             in which Russia’s full and unconditional withdrawal from Ukraine was once again demanded, and UN member states and international organizations were urged to intensify their support for diplomatic efforts aimed at achieving a resolution to the conflict. (Seven countries—Belarus, North Korea, Eritrea, Mali, Nicaragua, Russia and Syria—voted against, 32 countries abstained, and 141 voted in favour.)
          </p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 77/276</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 29 March 2023. Request for an Advisory Opinion of the ICJ on the obligations of States in respect of climate change, with respect to: (i) nations’ obligations under international law to ensure the protection for present and future generations of the climate system and other parts of the environment from greenhouse gas emissions, and (ii) the legal consequences for nations that cause significant harm to the climate system and other parts of the environment.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 77/281</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 18 April 2023. Promoting the Social and Solidarity Economy for Sustainable Development. Recognized the potential of social entrepreneurship, including cooperatives and social enterprises, to contribute to alleviating poverty and catalysing social transformation, and to contributing to the achievement of the UN SDGs. Encouraged member states, relevant UN development system entities, and multilateral, international and regional financial institutions and development banks to promote and support the social and solidarity economy. Requested the UN Secretary-General to prepare a report, in collaboration with the UN Inter-Agency Task Force on Social and Solidarity Economy (established in 2013), on the implementation of this resolution.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution ES-10/21</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 27 Oct. 2023. Called for an immediate and sustained humanitarian truce in Gaza, leading to a cessation of hostilities, and respect for international legal and humanitarian obligations.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution ES-10/22</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 12 Dec. 2023. Demanded an immediate humanitarian ceasefire in Gaza, and compliance with international law. Called for the protection of civilians and upholding legal and humanitarian obligations there.</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution 78/261</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 31 Jan. 2024. Determined to convene in 2025 a World Social Summit (Second World Summit for Social Development).</p>
                    </p-group>
                    <p-group>
                         <heading>Resolution ES-10/23</heading>
                         <p>Adopted 10 May 2024. Determined that the state of Palestine qualified for membership of the UN and therefore should be admitted to the organization. Recommended that the Security Council reconsider the matter favourably. The vetoing on 18 April by one member state—the USA—of a draft Security Council resolution recommending the admission of Palestine to the UN was deeply regretted. Decided to adopt, on an exceptional basis, a series of modalities to enable the participation of the state of Palestine in the sessions and work of the General Assembly and in international conferences convened by the UN.&#160;(Nine member states—Argentina, Czech Republic, Hungary, Israel, Federated States of Micronesia, Nauru, Palau, Papua New Guinea and the USA—voted against, 25 abstained and 143 voted in favour.)</p>
                    </p-group>
               </int-org-section>
               <!--07.iv.24: total - 8,617 words; above resolutions - 2,006 words-->
          </int-org-entry>
     </int-org-entryref>
     