<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="SL607026" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
          <int-org-entry-head>
               <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                    <org-entry-name>Trusteeship Council</org-entry-name>
               </int-org-name-group>
          </int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-block>
               <p-alternates default="EDIO" type="ALTERNATES">
                    <p usage="edio">
          The Trusteeship Council (comprising the People's Republic of China—a non-active member until May 1989, France, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom and the USA) was established to supervise UN Trust Territories through their administering authorities and to promote their advancement towards self-government or independence. On 1 October 1994 the last territory remaining under UN trusteeship, the Republic of Palau (part of the archipelago of the Caroline Islands), declared its independence under a compact of free association with the USA, its administering authority. The Security Council terminated the Trusteeship Agreement on 10 November, having determined that the objectives of the agreement had been fully attained. On 1 November the Trusteeship Council formally suspended its regular operations; thereafter it was to be convened on an extraordinary basis as required. The report of the UN Secretary-General entitled 
          <i>In Larger Freedom: Towards Development, Security and Human Rights for All</i>
          , issued in March 2005, proposed that the Trusteeship Council should be terminated.
        </p>
                    <p usage="ewyb">The Trusteeship Council (comprising the People's Republic of China—a non-active member until May 1989, France, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom and the USA) was established to supervise UN Trust Territories through their administering authorities and to promote the political, economic, social and educational advancement of their inhabitants towards self-government or independence. On 1 October 1994 the last territory remaining under UN trusteeship, the Republic of Palau (part of the archipelago of the Caroline Islands), declared its independence under a compact of free association with the USA, its administering authority. The Security Council terminated the Trusteeship Agreement on 10 November, having determined that the objectives of the agreement had been fully attained. On 1 November the Trusteeship Council formally suspended its regular operations; thereafter it was to be convened on an extraordinary basis as required.</p>
               </p-alternates>
               <!--~ 16.viii.13 - Alexis Lamek (France) elected as Pres-->
          </int-org-block>
     </int-org-entry>
     