<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="UNCLIMATE.IO" id-root="unclimate.io" iso="unclimate.io" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>United Nations Climate Change</org-entry-name>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">UNITED NATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb">United Nations (Other Bodies)</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="edio">United Nations Environment Programme</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>UN Campus, Platz der Vereinten Nationen 1, 53113 Bonn, Germany</verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <telephone alsofax="N">(228) 8151000</telephone>
               <fax>(228) 8151999</fax>
               <email>secretariat@unfccc.int</email>
               <internet>unfccc.int</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p id="UN-CC.IO.1.1">An administrative office focused on climate change was established in 1992, initially on an interim basis, as the secretariat for the newly-adopted UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). The UN Climate Change secretariat facilitates further intergovernmental climate negotiations and supports the implementation of the UNFCCC, as well as its 1997 Kyoto Protocol and the 2015 Paris Agreement.</p>
          <int-org-section id="UN-CC.IO.2" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Members</heading>
               <p>At April 2024 the UNFCCC had been ratified by 198 parties (197 countries and the European Union—EU); the Kyoto Protocol had 192 states parties (191 countries and the EU); and the Paris Agreement had 195 states parties (194 countries and the EU).</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="UN-CC.IO.3" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <heading-note>April 2024</heading-note>
          <int-org-section id="UN-CC.IO.4" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Conferences of the Parties (COPs)</heading>
               <p>States parties to the UNFCCC, as the parent climate treaty, meet annually to reflect on implementation of the treaty and to advance further solutions to climate change. Often referred to as the UN Climate Change Conference, COP sessions also incorporate annual meetings of the parties to the Kyoto Protocol (the CMP) and Paris Agreement (the CMA). The 29th COP was scheduled to be held in Baku, Azerbaijan, in November 2024.</p>
               <p>The governing bodies of the accords are supported by a Bureau, and two permanent bodies: the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice (SBSTA) and the Subsidiary Body for Implementation (SBI). Ad hoc working groups or subsidiary bodies can be established to advise on specific matters.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="UN-CC.IO.5" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Secretariat</heading>
               <p>The secretariat is headed by an Executive Secretary, supported by a Deputy Executive Secretary. Two Senior Directors oversee the main departments of Operations Co-ordination and Programme Co-ordination, the latter comprising four divisions of Mitigation, Adaptation, Transparency and Means of Implementation. The secretariat organizes all the negotiating sessions of the climate treaties, including the annual COP, as well as other regular meetings and workshops.</p>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Executive Secretary</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Simon</forename>
                                        <surname>Stiell</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Grenada</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="UN-CC.IO.4.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Technical Subsidiary Bodies</heading>
               <p>A range of bodies have been constituted by the UNFCCC, the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement.</p>
               <org-list>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Adaptation Committee</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>2010</found-date>
                         <stats>16 mems</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Adaptation Fund Board</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>2007</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">supervises and manages the Adaptation Fund, under the authority of the CMP</content-note>
                         <stats>16 mems</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Advisory Board of the Climate Technology Centre and Network (CTCN)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>2012</found-date>
                         <stats>29 mems</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Article 6.4 Supervisory Body</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>2022</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">responsible for developing and supervising the processes needed to operationalize a new carbon credit trading mechanism</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">fully accountable to the CMA</content-note>
                         <stats>12 mems</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) Executive Board</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>2009</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">fully accountable to the CMP</content-note>
                         <stats>10 mems</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Compliance Committee of the Kyoto Protocol</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>2006</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">fully accountable to the CMP</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">comprises facilitative and enforcement branches</content-note>
                         <stats>20 mems</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Consultative Group of Experts (CGE)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>1999 as the CGE on national communications from Parties not included in Annex I to the Convention, present name adopted in 2018</found-date>
                         <stats>27 mems</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>
              Executive Committee of the Warsaw
              
               International Mechanism for Loss and Damage
            </org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>2013</found-date>
                         <stats>20 mems</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Facilitative Working Group (FWG) of the Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>2018</found-date>
                         <stats>10 mems</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Katowice Committee of Experts on the Impacts of the Implementation of Response Measures (KCI)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>2018</found-date>
                         <stats>14 mems</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Least Development Countries Expert Group (LEG)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>2001</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">supports the preparation and implementation of national adaptation plans and programmes of action</content-note>
                         <stats>10 mems</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Paris Committee on Capacity-building</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>2015</found-date>
                         <stats>12 mems</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Standing Committee on Finance</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>2010</found-date>
                         <stats>20 mems</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Technology Executive Committee</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>2010</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the policy arm of UNFCCC’s Technology Mechanism (which also comprises the CTCN as its implementation arm)</content-note>
                         <stats>22 mems</stats>
                    </org-entry>
               </org-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="UN-CC.IO.6" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Regional Collaboration Centres</heading>
               <p>There are Regional Collaboration Centres (RCCs) serving Asia and the Pacific; the Caribbean; East and Southern Africa; Latin America; the Middle East, North Africa and South Asia; and West and Central Africa. These aim to work with governments and stakeholders at a regional level to promote greater collaboration and to advance climate solutions. With the UNFCCC secretariat, each RCC co-organizes a Regional Climate Week with the aim of building new partnerships, and raising awareness of and encouraging local engagement with climate-related issues.</p>
               <p>The key role of the RCCs initially was to facilitate access to the Clean Development Mechanism, established in accordance with the Kyoto Protocol. In more recent years, since the adoption of the Paris Agreement, they extend support to countries elaborating nationally determined contributions, carbon credit trading and accessing carbon markets, and implementing adaptation measures.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="UN-CC.IO.7" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Activities</heading>
          <int-org-section id="UN-CC.IO.8" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>UN Framework Convention on Climate Change</heading>
               <p>
        The treaty resulted from the work of an Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee that was established in December 1990, and supported by the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.1369">UN Environment Programme</xr>
         and the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.2609">World Meteorological Organization</xr>
        . The negotiations process was strongly influenced by the First Assessment Report of the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UNEP.101">International Panel on Climate Change</xr>
        , which was released earlier in 1990, and noted that human-led activities were contributing to emissions of gases significantly high in concentration to accelerate the warming greenhouse gas effect. The Report endorsed the formulation of an international treaty to help stabilize so-called greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and to structure international co-operation towards climate change adaptation and mitigation, with industrialized countries to take the lead in limiting emissions, enhancing scientific observation and undertaking technology transfers to developing countries. The UNFCCC was concluded in May 1992 and it was opened for signature in the following month at the UN Conference on Environment and Development (known as the Earth Summit), convened in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. It entered into force in March 1994.
      </p>
               <int-org-section id="UN-CC.KYOTO.IO.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Kyoto Protocol</heading>
                    <p>At the 3rd UNFCCC COP, held in Kyoto, Japan, in December 1997, 38 industrial nations endorsed mandatory GHG emission reductions of an average of 5.2% during the period 2008-12, to pre-1990 levels. The so-called Kyoto Protocol was to enter into force on being ratified by at least 55 countries party to the UNFCCC, including industrialized countries with combined emissions of CO2 in 1990 accounting for at least 55% of the total global GHG emissions by developed nations. The 4th COP, convened in Buenos Aires, Argentina, in November 1998, adopted a plan of action addressing the finalization of the operational details of the Kyoto Protocol. These included the Clean Development Mechanism, by which industrialized countries may obtain credits towards achieving their reduction targets by assisting developing countries to implement emission-reducing measures, and a system of trading emission quotas. In March 2002 the USA announced that it would not ratify the Kyoto Protocol. The Protocol entered into force in February 2005.</p>
                    <p>
          COP14, convened in Poznań, Poland, in Dec. 2008, finalized the Protocol’s 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="UN-CC.IO.77">Adaptation Fund</xr>
          , which was to finance projects and programmes in developing signatory states that were particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change. In the following year, states parties meeting in Copenhagen, Denmark, determined that international co-operative action should be taken to reduce global GHG emissions so as to restrict the ongoing increase in global temperature to below 2°C. Agreement was also reached to establish a 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="UNEP.IO.001">Green Climate Fund</xr>
          , to support climate change mitigation actions in developing countries, and a Technology Mechanism, with the aim of accelerating technology development and transfer in support of adaptation and mitigation activities. COP17, held in Durban, South Africa, in November-December 2011, concluded with a consensus on a Durban Platform for Enhanced Action, incorporating agreements to extend the Kyoto provisions regarding emissions reductions by industrialized nations beyond the expiry at the end of 2012 of the initial commitment phase, and to commence negotiations on a new, inclusive global emissions arrangement (to be concluded by 2015). In December 2012 COP18, convened in Doha, Qatar, approved an amendment of the Kyoto Protocol to initiate a second commitment period of eight years, during which states parties agreed to reduce GHG emissions by at least 18% below 1990 levels during 2013-20.
        </p>
               </int-org-section>
               <int-org-section id="UN-CC.PARIS.IO.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Paris Agreement</heading>
                    <p>In December 2015 a plenary meeting of COP21, convened in Paris, France, established the Comité de Paris (superseding the Durban Platform) to co-ordinate the final negotiations to secure a new climate agreement. The so-called Paris Agreement was adopted on 12 December and incorporated commitments to reduce emissions and to strengthen, through increased financing, the ability of developing countries to adapt to climate change and to recover from the impact of climate-related shocks. Action plans, in the form of voluntary national determined contributions (NDCs), were to be submitted by countries for review and updated every five years. Significantly, states parties agreed to include in the accord a declared aim to pursue efforts to limit the rise in global temperatures by 2100 to 1.5°C (over pre-industrial levels), alongside the main objective of limiting the rise to 2°C. At a ceremony held in April 2016 175 states parties signed the Paris Agreement and 15 also deposited their instruments of ratification; the accord was to enter into effect 30 days following ratification by at least 55 nations responsible for 55% of man-made GHG emissions. Following the ratifications, in early September, by the People’s Republic of China and the USA (together responsible for some 38% of global carbon emissions), the required thresholds were achieved on 5 October, enabling the Agreement to enter into force on 4 November. (The USA temporarily withdrew from the Agreement during the period 4 November 2020-18 February 2021.)</p>
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="UN-CC.IO.9" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Recent Developments</heading>
               <p>COP26, held in Glasgow, Scotland, United Kingdom, in November 2021, adopted the Glasgow Climate Pact, which, for the first time, called for the `phase-down of unabated coal power and inefficient fossil fuel subsidies’. (India had declined to accept a proposed text that alluded to ending their use.) Under the Pact the developed states parties to the UNFCCC were urged at least to double by 2025, over 2019 levels, the collective provision of climate finance to support developing members’ adaptation activities, and multilateral development banks, etc., were also encouraged to scale up climate finance provision; a new Climate Finance Delivery Plan: Meeting the $100 Billion Goal (focused on the annual mobilization of US $100,000m. in climate finance during 2021-25) was welcomed. `Climate justice’ was acknowledged by the Pact—i.e. consideration of social equality and human rights in tandem with action on climate change. During COP26 technical negotiations on the rulebook for Article 6 of the Paris Agreement were finalized, establishing detailed reporting requirements (obligatory with effect from 2024) on emissions targets, and mechanisms governing the functioning of international carbon markets (for example on the taxation of bilateral trades). Declarations and agreements reached on the sidelines of COP26 included a Global Methane Pledge, according to which more than 100 states resolved to lower global methane emissions by 30% by 2030; the Glasgow Leaders’ Declaration on Forests and Land Use (a collective commitment to reverse forest loss and land degradation by 2030); a US-China Joint Glasgow Declaration on Enhancing Climate Action in the 2020s; and the establishment of a Champions Group on Adaptation Finance, of an Infrastructure for Resilient Island States funding mechanism, and of a Just Energy Transition Partnership to support South Africa’s decarbonization activities.</p>
               <p>In December 2022 COP27, convened in Sharm el-Sheik, Egypt, agreed on the establishment of a Loss and Damage Fund, to support developing countries adversely affected by climate change. Operational details of the Fund, which was to be hosted for the first four years by the World Bank, were concluded at COP28. COP27 also endorsed arrangements to operationalize a Santiago Network for Loss and Damage, which aimed to facilitate technical assistance to countries vulnerable to climate change.</p>
               <p>In June 2023 a Bonn Climate Change Conference was convened, in preparation for the inaugural review of global progress towards meeting the goals of the Paris Agreement. The global stocktake, a requirement of the Agreement that was to be undertaken every five years, was conducted at COP28, held in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE), in November-December. The meeting concluded a consensus agreement to accelerate emission reduction targets, to triple renewable energy capacity, and double energy efficiency measures, by 2030 and to scale-up climate finance; some US $700m. was pledged to operationalize the Loss and Damage Fund. Discussions relating to food and health were incorporated into the official COP agenda for the first time and an Emirates Declaration on Sustainable Agriculture, Resilient Food Systems, and Climate Action was issued, recognizing the critical interconnections between all components in the efforts to limit global climate change. A two-year work programme on the Paris Agreement’s global goal on adaptation was concluded in late 2023 and parties to the Agreement adopted a new UAE Framework for Global Climate Resilience.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="UN-CC.IO.10" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Partnerships</heading>
               <p>The secretariat supports the Marrakech Partnership for Global Climate Action, which was established in November 2016 (at COP22) to promote closer collaboration between governments, city-level administrations, the private sector, foundations, international organizations and other UN bodies, i.e. non-party stakeholders. The Marrakech Partnership is guided by the long-term goals of the Paris Agreement, with a focus on immediate reductions of emissions and increased resilience to climate impacts. Other initiatives to promote multi-stakeholder engagement supported by the secretariat include the Race to Zero, launched in June 2020, the Race to Resilience, launched in January 2021 at an international Climate Adaptation Summit, and the Breakthrough Agenda, launched in November 2021 (at COP26).</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="UN-CC.IO.80" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Affiliated Bodies</heading>
          <org-list>
               <org-entry id="UN-CC.IO.77" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Adaptation Fund</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>1818 H St, NW, Washington, DC 20433, USA</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(202) 473-0701</telephone>
                         <fax>(202) 522-3240</fax>
                         <internet>adaptation-fund.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>2001; formally launched in Dec. 2007</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">extends financing for climate adaptation and resilience projects and progs</content-note>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Head</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Mikko</forename>
                                   <surname>Ollikainen</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Finland</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="IO-UN.1344" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Global Environment Facility (GEF)</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>c/o 1818 H St, NW, Washington, DC 20433, USA</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <email>communications@thegef.org</email>
                         <internet>www.thegef.org</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>1991, by UNEP, the World Bank and UNDP</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">
          since 1994 it has served as an operating entity of the financial mechanism established by the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="UN-CC.IO.8">UN Framework Convention on Climate Change</xr>
           (UNFCCC), as well as the financial mechanism for the following major international environmental conventions: the Minamata Convention on Mercury, Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants, UN Convention on Biological Diversity, UN Convention to Combat Desertification; the GEF aims to support the implementation in developing countries of projects in the six thematic areas of climate change: the conservation of biological diversity; the protection of international waters; forests; arresting land degradation; and addressing harmful chemicals and waste. Capacity building to allow countries to meet their obligations under international environmental agreements, and adaptation to climate change, are priority cross-cutting components of these projects. UNEP services the Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel, which provides expert advice on GEF progs and operational strategies. Funding is channelled through a GEF Trust Fund, a GEF Least Developed Countries Fund (LDC-F—established to address the special needs of the LDCs in relation to the UNFCCC, with a particular emphasis on financing the preparation and implementation of NAPAs), and a Special Climate Change Fund (SCCF, established in 2001). In June 2022 29 donor countries pledged US&#8201;$5,330m. for the 8th periodic replenishment of GEF funds (GEF-8), covering the period July 2022-June 2026
        </content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">a new Global Biodiversity Framework Fund was endorsed and launched at the 7th GEF Assembly, convened in Vancouver, Canada, in Aug. 2023</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">the GEF has 18 partner agencies</content-note>
                    <stats>mems: 186 participant countries</stats>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Chair. and CEO</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <title>Dr</title>
                                   <forename>Carlos Manuel</forename>
                                   <surname>Rodríguez</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Costa Rica</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
               <org-entry id="UNEP.IO.001" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                    <org-entry-head>
                         <org-entry-name>Green Climate Fund</org-entry-name>
                    </org-entry-head>
                    <address-block>
                         <address type="POSTAL">
                              <verbatim-address>175 Art Center-Daero, Yeonsu-gu, Incheon 22004, Seoul, Republic of Korea</verbatim-address>
                         </address>
                         <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 458-6059</telephone>
                         <email>info@gcfund.org</email>
                         <internet>www.greenclimate.fund</internet>
                    </address-block>
                    <found-date>2010</found-date>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">acts as the financial mechanism under the UNFCCC and the 2015 Paris Agreement; supports projects investing in low emission and climate resilient devt</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">offers a wide range of financial products tailored to specific project needs</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">states may access the Fund through multiple entities simultaneously</content-note>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">at a pledging conf. convened in Oct. 2023, in Bonn, Germany, some US&#8201;$9,322m. was raised for the period 2024-27</content-note>
                    <role-group>
                         <role>Exec. Dir</role>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Mafalda</forename>
                                   <surname>Duarte</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Portugal</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </role-group>
               </org-entry>
          </org-list>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="UNEP.EDIO.1.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="edio">
          <heading>United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change</heading>
          <heading-note>9 May 1992</heading-note>
          <legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <gen-list>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.2">The Parties to this Convention,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.3">Acknowledging that change in the Earth's climate and its adverse effect are a common concern of humankind,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.4">Concerned that human activities have been substantially increasing the atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases, that these increases enhance the natural greenhouse effect, and that this will result on average in an additional warming of the Earth's surface and atmosphere and may adversely affect natural ecosystems and humankind,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.5">Noting that the largest share of historical and current global emissions of greenhouse gases has originated in developed countries, that per capita emissions in developing countries are still relatively low and that the share of global emissions originating in developing countries will grow to meet their social and development needs,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.6">Aware of the role and importance in terrestrial and marine ecosystems of sinks and reservoirs of greenhouse gases,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.7">Noting that there are many uncertainties in predictions of climate change, particularly with regard to the timing, magnitude and regional patterns thereof,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.8">Acknowledging that the global nature of climate change calls for the widest possible co-operation by all countries and their participation in an effective and appropriate international response, in accordance with their common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities and their social and economic conditions,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.9">Recalling the pertinent provisions of the Declaration of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, adopted at Stockholm on 16 June 1972,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.10">Recalling also that States have, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and the principles of international law, the sovereign right to exploit their own resources pursuant to their own environmental and developmental policies, and the responsibility to ensure that activities within their jurisdiction or control do not cause damage to the environment of other States or of areas beyond the limits of national jurisdiction,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.11">Reaffirming the principle of sovereignty of States in international co-operation to address climate change,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.12">Recognizing that States should enact effective environmental legislation, that environmental standards, management objectives and priorities should reflect the environmental and developmental context to which they apply, and that standards applied by some countries may be inappropriate and of unwarranted economic and social cost to other countries, in particular developing countries, Recalling the provisions of the General Assembly...on the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, and...on protection of global climate for present and future generations of mankind,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.13">Recalling also the provisions of the General Assembly...on the possible adverse effects of sea-level rise on islands and coastal areas, particularly low-lying coastal areas, and...on the implementation of the Plan of Action to Combat Desertification,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.14">Recalling further the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer, 1985, and the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, 1987, as adjusted and amended on 29 June 1990,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.15">Noting the Ministerial Declaration of the Second World Climate Conference adopted on 7 November 1990,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.16">Conscious of the valuable analytical work being conducted by many States on climate change and of the important contributions of the World Meteorological Organization, the United Nations Environment Programme and other organs, organizations and bodies of the United Nations system, as well as other international and intergovernmental bodies, to the exchange of results of scientific research and the co-ordination of research,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.17">Recognizing that steps required to understand and address climate change will be environmentally, socially and economically most effective if they are based on relevant scientific, technical and economic considerations and continually re-evaluated in the light of new findings in these areas,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.18">Recognizing that various actions to address climate change can be justified economically in their own right and can also help in solving other environmental problems,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.19">Recognizing also the need for developed countries to take immediate action in a flexible manner on the basis of clear priorities, as a first step towards comprehensive response strategies at the global, national and, where agreed, regional levels that take into account all greenhouse gases, with due consideration of their relative contributions to the enhancement of the greenhouse effect,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.20">Recognizing further that low-lying and other small island countries, countries with low-lying coastal, arid and semi-arid areas or areas liable to floods, drought and desertification, and developing countries with fragile mountainous ecosystems are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.21">Recognizing the special difficulties of those countries, especially developing countries, whose economies are particularly dependent on fossil fuel production, use and exportation, as a consequence of action taken on limiting greenhouse gas emissions,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.22">Affirming that responses to climate change should be co-ordinated with social and economic development in an integrated manner with a view to avoiding adverse impacts on the latter, taking into full account the legitimate priority needs of developing countries for the achievement of sustained economic growth and the eradication of poverty,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.23">Recognizing that all countries, especially developing countries, need access to resources required to achieve sustainable social and economic development and that, in order for developing countries to progress towards that goal, their energy consumption will need to grow, taking into account the possibilities for achieving greater energy efficiency and for controlling greenhouse gas emissions in general, including through the application of new technologies on terms which make such an application economically and socially beneficial,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.24">Determined to protect the climate system for present and further generations,</p>
                         </item>
                    </gen-list>
                    <p>Have agreed as follows:</p>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>Article 1</heading>
                    <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.27">For the purposes of this Convention:</p>
                    <gen-list>
                         <label>1.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p>``Adverse effects of climate change'' means changes in the physical environment or biota resulting from climate change which have significant deleterious effects on the composition, resilience or productivity of natural and managed ecosystems or on the operation of socioeconomic systems or on human health and welfare.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>2.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p>``Climate change'' means a change of climate which is attributed directly or indirectly to human activity that alters the composition of the global atmosphere and which is in addition to natural climate variability observed over comparable time periods.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>3.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p>``Climate system'' means the totality of the atmosphere, hydrosphere, biosphere and geosphere and their interactions.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>4.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p>``Emissions'' means the release of greenhouse gases and/or their precursors into the atmosphere over a specified area and period of time.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>5.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p>``Greenhouse gases'' means those gaseous constituents of the atmosphere, both natural and anthropogenic, that absorb and re-emit infrared radiation. </p>
                         </item>
                         <label>6.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p>``Regional economic integration organization'' means an organization constituted by sovereign States of a given region which has competence in respect of matters governed by this Convention or its protocols and has been duly authorized, in accordance with its internal procedures, to sign, ratify, accept, approve or accede to the instruments concerned.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>7.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p>``Reservoir'' means a component or components of the climate system where a greenhouse gas or a precursor of a greenhouse gas is stored.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>8.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p>``Sink'' means any process, activity or mechanism which removes a greenhouse gas, an aerosol or a precursor of a greenhouse gas from the atmosphere. </p>
                         </item>
                         <label>9.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p>``Source'' means any process or activity which releases a greenhouse gas, an aerosol or a precursor of a greenhouse gas into the atmosphere.</p>
                         </item>
                    </gen-list>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>Article 2</heading>
                    <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.29">The ultimate objective of this Convention and any related legal instruments that the Conference of the Parties may adopt is to achieve, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Convention, stabilization of greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere at a level that would prevent dangerous anthropogenic interference with the climate system. Such a level should be achieved within a time-frame sufficient to allow ecosystems to adapt naturally to climate change, to ensure that food production is not threatened and to enable economic development to proceed in a sustainable manner.</p>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>Article 3</heading>
                    <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.31">
          In their actions to achieve the objective of the Convention and to implement its provisions, the Parties shall be guided, 
          <i>inter alia, </i>
          by the following:
        </p>
                    <gen-list>
                         <label>1.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p>The Parties should protect the climate system for the benefit of present and future generations of humankind, on the basis of equity and in accordance with their common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities. Accordingly, the developed country Parties should take the lead in combating climate change and the adverse effects thereof.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>2.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p>The specific needs and special circumstances of developing country Parties, especially those that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change, and of those Parties, especially developing country Parties, that would have to bear a disproportionate or abnormal burden under the Convention, should be given full consideration.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>3.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p>The Parties should take precautionary measures to anticipate, prevent or minimize the causes of climate change and mitigate its adverse effects. Where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage, lack of full scientific certainty should not be used as a reason for postponing such measures, taking into account that policies and measures to deal with climate change should be cost-effective so as to ensure global benefits at the lowest possible cost. To achieve this, such policies and measures should take into account different socioeconomic contexts, be comprehensive, cover all relevant sources, sinks and reservoirs of greenhouse gases and adaptation, and comprise all economic sectors. Efforts to address climate change may be carried out co-operatively by interested Parties.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>4.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p>The Parties have a right to, and should, promote sustainable development. Policies and measures to protect the climate system against human-induced change should be appropriate for the specific conditions of each Party and should be integrated with national development programmes, taking into account that economic development is essential for adopting measures to address climate change.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>5.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p>The Parties should co-operate to promote a supportive and open international economic system that would lead to sustainable economic growth and development in all Parties, particularly developing country Parties, thus enabling them better to address the problems of climate change. Measures taken to combat climate change, including unilateral ones, should not constitute a means of arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination or a disguised restriction on international trade.</p>
                         </item>
                    </gen-list>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>Article 4</heading>
                    <gen-list>
                         <label>1.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.33">All Parties, taking into account their common but differentiated responsibilities and their specific national and regional development priorities, objectives and circumstances, shall:</p>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>(a)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Develop, periodically update, publish and make available to the Conference of the Parties, in accordance with Article 12, national inventories of anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of all greenhouse gases not controlled by the Montreal Protocol, using comparable methodologies to be agreed upon by the Conference of the Parties;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(b)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Formulate, implement, publish and regularly update national and, where appropriate, regional programmes containing measures to mitigate climate change by addressing anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of all greenhouse gases not controlled by the Montreal Protocol, and measures to facilitate adequate adaptation to climate change;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(c)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Promote and co-operate in the development, application and diffusion, including transfer, of technologies, practices and processes that control, reduce or prevent anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases not controlled by the Montreal Protocol in all relevant sectors, including the energy, transport, industry, agriculture, forestry and waste management sectors;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(d)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Promote sustainable management, and promote and co-operate in the conservation and enhancement, as appropriate, of sinks and reservoirs of all greenhouses gases not controlled by the Montreal Protocol, including biomass, forests and oceans as well as other terrestrial, coastal and marine ecosystems; </p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(e)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Co-operate in preparing for adaptation to the impacts of climate change; develop and elaborate appropriate and integrated plans for coastal zone management, water resources and agriculture, and for the protection and rehabilitation of areas, particularly in Africa, affected by drought and desertification, as well as floods;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(f)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Take climate change considerations into account, to the extent feasible, in their relevant social, economic and environmental policies and actions, and employ appropriate methods, for example impact assessments, formulated and determined nationally, with a view to minimizing adverse effects on the economy, on public health and on the quality of the environment, of projects or measures undertaken by them to mitigate or adapt to climate change;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(g)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Promote and co-operate in scientific, technological, technical, socioeconomic and other research, systematic observation and development of data archives related to the climate system and intended to further the understanding and to reduce or eliminate the remaining uncertainties regarding the causes, effects, magnitude and timing of climate change and the economic and social consequences of various response strategies;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(h)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Promote and co-operate in the full, open and prompt exchange of relevant scientific, technological, technical, socioeconomic and legal information related to the climate system and climate change, and to the economic and social consequences of various response strategies;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(i)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Promote and co-operate in education, training and public awareness related to climate change and encourage the widest participation in this process, including that of non-governmental organizations; and</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(j)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Communicate to the Conference of the Parties information related to implementation, in accordance with Article 12.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </item>
                         <label>2.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.34">The developed country Parties and other Parties included in Annex I commit themselves specifically as provided for in the following:</p>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>(a)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Each of these Parties shall adopt national policies and take corresponding measures on the mitigation of climate change, by limiting its anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases and protecting and enhancing its greenhouse gas sinks and reservoirs. These policies and measures will demonstrate that developed countries are taking the lead in modifying longer-term trends in anthropogenic emissions consistent with the objective of the Convention, recognizing that the return by the end of the present decade to earlier levels of anthropogenic emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases not controlled by the Montreal Protocol would contribute to such modification, and taking into account the differences in these Parties' starting points and approaches, economic structures and resource bases, the need to maintain strong and sustainable economic growth, available technologies and other individual circumstances, as well as the need for equitable and appropriate contributions by each of these Parties to the global effort regarding that objective. These Parties may implement such policies and measures jointly with other Parties and may assist other Parties in contributing to the achievement of the objective of the Convention and, in particular, that of this sub-paragraph;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(b)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>In order to promote progress to this end, each of these Parties shall communicate, within six months of the entry into force of the Convention and periodically thereafter, and in accordance with Article 12, detailed information on its policies and measures referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above, as well as on its resulting projected anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of greenhouse gases not controlled by the Montreal Protocol for the period referred to in sub-paragraph (a), with the aim of returning individually or jointly to their 1990 levels these anthropogenic emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases not controlled by the Montreal Protocol. This information will be reviewed by the Conference of the Parties, at its first session and periodically thereafter, in accordance with Article 7;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(c)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Calculations of emissions by sources and removals by sinks of greenhouse gases for the purposes of sub-paragraph (b) above should take into account the best available scientific knowledge, including of the effective capacity of sinks and the respective contributions of such gases to climate change. The Conference of the Parties shall consider and agree on methodologies for these calculations at its first session and review them regularly thereafter; </p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(d)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The Conference of the Parties shall, at its first session, review the adequacy of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) above. Such review shall be carried out in the light of the best available scientific information and assessment on climate change and its impacts, as well as relevant technical, social and economic information. Based on this review, the Conference of the Parties shall take appropriate action, which may include the adoption of amendments to the commitments in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) above. The Conference of the Parties, at its first session, shall also take decisions regarding criteria for joint implementation as indicated in sub-paragraph (a) above. A second review of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) shall take place not later than 31 December 1998, and thereafter at regular intervals determined by the Conference of the Parties, until the objective of the Convention is met;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(e)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Each of these Parties shall:</p>
                                        <gen-list>
                                             <label>(i)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Co-ordinate as appropriate with other such Parties, relevant economic and administrative instruments developed to achieve the objective of the Convention; and</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(ii)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Identify and periodically review its own policies and practices which encourage activities that lead to greater levels of anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases not controlled by the Montreal Protocol than would otherwise occur.</p>
                                             </item>
                                        </gen-list>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(f)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The Conference of the Parties shall review, not later than 31 December 1998, available information with a view to taking decisions regarding such amendments to the lists in Annexes I and II as may be appropriate, with the approval of the Party concerned;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(g)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Any Party not included in Annex I may, in its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, or at any time thereafter, notify the Depositary that it intends to be bound by sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) above. The Depositary shall inform the other signatories and Parties of any such notification.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </item>
                         <label>3.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.35">The developed country Parties and other developed Parties included in Annex II shall provide new and additional financial resources to meet the agreed full costs incurred by developing country Parties in complying with their obligations under Article 12, paragraph 1. They shall also provide such financial resources, including for the transfer of technology, needed by the developing country Parties to meet the agreed full incremental costs of implementing measures that are covered by paragraph 1 of this Article and that are agreed between a developing country Party and the international entity or entities referred to in Article 11, in accordance with that Article. The implementation of these commitments shall take into account the need for adequacy and predictability in the flow of funds and the importance of appropriate burden-sharing among the developed country Parties.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>4.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.36">The developed country Parties and other developed Parties included in Annex II shall also assist the developing country Parties that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change in meeting costs of adaptation to those adverse effects.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>5.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.37">The developed country Parties and other developed Parties included in Annex II shall take all practicable steps to promote, facilitate and finance, as appropriate, the transfer of, or access to, environmentally sound technologies and know-how to other Parties, particularly developing country Parties, to enable them to implement the provisions of the Convention. In this process, the developed country Parties shall support the development and enhancement of endogenous capacities and technologies of developing country Parties. Other Parties and organizations in a position to do so may also assist in facilitating the transfer of such technologies.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>6.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.38">In the implementation of their commitments under paragraph 2 above, a certain degree of flexibility shall be allowed by the Conference of the Parties to the Parties included in Annex I undergoing the process of transition to a market economy, in order to enhance the ability of these Parties to address climate change, including with regard to the historical level of anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases not controlled by the Montreal Protocol chosen as a reference.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>7.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.39">The extent to which developing country Parties will effectively implement their commitments under the Convention will depend on the effective implementation by developed country Parties of their commitments under the Convention related to financial resources and transfer of technology and will take fully into account that economic and social development and poverty eradication are the first and overriding priorities of the developing country Parties.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>8.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.40">In the implementation of the commitments in this Article, the Parties shall give full consideration to what actions are necessary under the Convention, including actions related to funding, insurance and the transfer of technology, to meet the specific needs and concerns of developing country Parties arising from the adverse effects of climate change and/or the impact of the implementation of response measures, especially on:</p>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>(a)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Small island countries;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(b)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Countries with low-lying coastal areas;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(c)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Countries with arid and semi-arid areas, forested areas and areas liable to forest decay;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(d)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Countries with areas prone to natural disasters;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(e)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Countries with areas liable to drought and desertification;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(f)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Countries with areas of high urban atmospheric pollution;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(g)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Countries with areas with fragile ecosystems, including mountainous ecosystems;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(h)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Countries whose economies are highly dependent on income generated from the production, processing and export, and/or on consumption of fossil fuels and associated energy-intensive products; and</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(i)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Land-locked and transit countries.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.41">Further, the Conference of the Parties may take actions, as appropriate, with respect to this paragraph.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>9.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.42">The Parties shall take full account of the specific needs and special situations of the least developed countries in their actions with regard to funding and transfer of technology.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>10.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.43">The Parties shall, in accordance with Article 10, take into consideration in the implementation of the commitments of the Convention the situation of Parties, particularly developing country Parties, with economies that are vulnerable to the adverse effects of the implementation of measures to respond to climate change. This applies notably to Parties with economies that are highly dependent on income generated from the production, processing and export, and/or consumption of fossil fuels and associated energy-intensive products and/or the use of fossil fuels for which such Parties have serious difficulties in switching to alternatives.</p>
                         </item>
                    </gen-list>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>Article 5</heading>
                    <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.45">In carrying out their commitments under Article 4, paragraph 1 (g), the Parties shall:</p>
                    <gen-list>
                         <item>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>(a)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Support and further develop, as appropriate, international and intergovernmental programmes and networks or organizations aimed at defining, conducting, assessing and financing research, data collection and systematic observation, taking into account the need to minimize duplication of effort;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(b)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Support international and intergovernmental efforts to strengthen systematic observation and national scientific and technical research capacities and capabilities, particularly in developing countries, and to promote access to, and the exchange of, data and analyses thereof obtained from areas beyond national jurisdiction; and</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(c)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Take into account the particular concerns and needs of developing countries and co-operate in improving their endogenous capacities and capabilities to participate in the efforts referred to in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) above.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </item>
                    </gen-list>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>Article 6</heading>
                    <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.47">In carrying out their commitments under Article 4, paragraph 1 (i), the Parties shall:</p>
                    <gen-list>
                         <item>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>(a)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Promote and facilitate at the national and, as appropriate, subregional and regional levels, and in accordance with national laws and regulations, and within their respective capacities:</p>
                                        <gen-list>
                                             <label>(i)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>The development and implementation of educational and public awareness programmes on climate change and its effects;</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(ii)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Public access to information on climate change and its effects; </p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(iii)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Public participation in addressing climate change and its effects and developing adequate responses; and</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(iv)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Training of scientific, technical and managerial personnel.</p>
                                             </item>
                                        </gen-list>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(b)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Co-operate in and promote, at the international level, and, where appropriate, using existing bodies:</p>
                                        <gen-list>
                                             <label>(i)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>The development and exchange of educational and public awareness material on climate change and its effects; and</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(ii)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>The development and implementation of education and training programmes, including the strengthening of national institutions and the exchange or secondment of personnel to train experts in this field, in particular for developing countries.</p>
                                             </item>
                                        </gen-list>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </item>
                    </gen-list>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>Article 7</heading>
                    <gen-list>
                         <label>1.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.49">A Conference of the Parties is hereby established.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>2.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.50">The Conference of the Parties, as the supreme body of this Convention, shall keep under regular review the implementation of the Convention and any related legal instruments that the Conference of the Parties may adopt, and shall make, within its mandate, the decisions necessary to promote the effective implementation of the Convention. [Duties and roles.]</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>3.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.51">The Conference of the Parties shall, at its first session, adopt its own rules of procedure as well as those of the subsidiary bodies established by the Convention, which shall include decision-making procedures for matters not already covered by decision-making procedures stipulated in the Convention. Such procedures may include specified majorities required for the adoption of particular decisions.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>4.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.52">The first session of the Conference of the Parties shall be convened by the interim secretariat referred to in Article 21 and shall take place not later than one year after the date of entry into force of the Convention. Thereafter, ordinary sessions of the Conference of the Parties shall be held every year unless otherwise decided by the Conference of the Parties.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>5.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.53">Extraordinary sessions of the Conference of the Parties shall be held at such other times as may be deemed necessary by the Conference, or at the written request of any Party, provided that, within six months of the request being communicated to the Parties by the secretariat, it is supported by at least one-third of the Parties.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>6.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.54">The United Nations, its specialized agencies and the International Atomic Energy Agency, as well as any State member thereof or observers thereto not Party to the Convention, may be represented at sessions of the Conference of the Parties as observers. Any body or agency, whether national or international, governmental or non-governmental, which is qualified in matters covered by the Convention, and which has informed the secretariat of its wish to be represented at a session of the Conference of the Parties as an observer, may be so admitted unless at least one-third of the Parties present object. The admission and participation of observers shall be subject to the rules of procedures adopted by the Conference of the Parties.</p>
                         </item>
                    </gen-list>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>Article 8</heading>
                    <gen-list>
                         <label>1.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.56">A secretariat is hereby established.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>2.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.57">The functions of the secretariat shall be:</p>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>(a)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>To make arrangements for sessions of the Conference of the Parties and its subsidiary bodies established under the Convention and to provide them with services as required;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(b)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>To compile and transmit reports submitted to it;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(c)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>To facilitate assistance to the Parties, particularly developing country Parties, on request, in the compilation and communication of information required in accordance with the provisions of the Convention;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(d)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>To prepare reports on its activities and present them to the Conference of the Parties;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(e)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>To ensure the necessary co-ordination with the secretariats of other relevant international bodies;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(f)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>To enter, under the overall guidance of the Conference of the Parties, into such administrative and contractual arrangements as may be required for the effective discharge of its functions; and</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(g)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>To perform the other secretariat functions specified in the Convention and in any of its protocols and such other functions as may be determined by the Conference of the Parties.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </item>
                         <label>3.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.58">The Conference of the Parties, at its first session, shall designate a permanent secretariat and make arrangements for its functioning.</p>
                         </item>
                    </gen-list>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>Article 9</heading>
                    <gen-list>
                         <label>1.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.60">A subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice is hereby established to provide the Conference of the Parties and, as appropriate, its other subsidiary bodies with timely information and advice on scientific and technological matters relating to the Convention. This body shall be open to participation by all Parties and shall be multidisciplinary. It shall comprise government representatives competent in the relevant field of expertise. It shall report regularly to the Conference of the Parties on all aspects of its work.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>2.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.61">Under the guidance of the Conference of the Parties, and drawing upon existing competent international bodies, this body shall:</p>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>(a) Provide assessments of the state of scientific knowledge relating to climate change and its effects;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>(b) Prepare scientific assessments on the effects of measures taken in the implementation of the Convention;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>(c) Identify innovative, efficient and state-of-the-art technologies and know-how and advise on the ways and means of promoting development and/or transferring such technologies;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>(d) Provide advice on scientific programmes, international co-operation in research and development related to climate change, as well as on ways and means of supporting endogenous capacity-building in developing countries; and</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>(e) Respond to scientific, technological and methodological questions that the Conference of the Parties and its subsidiary bodies may put to the body.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </item>
                         <label>3.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.62">The functions and terms of reference of this body may be further elaborated by the Conference of the Parties.</p>
                         </item>
                    </gen-list>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>Article 10</heading>
                    <gen-list>
                         <label>1.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.64">A subsidiary body for implementation is hereby established to assist the Conference of the Parties in the assessment and review of the effective implementation of the Convention. This body shall be open to participation by all Parties and comprise government representatives who are experts on matters related to climate change. It shall report regularly to the Conference of the Parties on all aspects of its work.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>2.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.65">Under the guidance of the Conference of the Parties, this body shall:</p>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>(a)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Consider the information communicated in accordance with Article 12, paragraph 1, to assess the overall aggregated effect of the steps taken by the Parties in the light of the latest scientific assessments concerning climate change;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(b)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Consider the information communicated in accordance with Article 12, paragraph 2, in order to assist the Conference of the Parties in carrying out the reviews required by Article 4, paragraph 2 (d); and</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(c)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Assist the Conference of the Parties, as appropriate, in the preparation and implementation of its decisions.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </item>
                    </gen-list>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>Article 11</heading>
                    <gen-list>
                         <label>1.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.67">A mechanism for the provision of financial resources on a grant or concessional basis, including for the transfer of technology, is hereby defined. It shall function under the guidance of and be accountable to the Conference of the Parties, which shall decide on its policies, programme priorities and eligibility criteria related to this Convention. Its operation shall be entrusted to one or more existing international entities.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>2.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.68">The financial mechanism shall have an equitable and balanced representation of all Parties within a transparent system of governance.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>3.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.69">The Conference of the Parties and the entity or entities entrusted with the operation of the financial mechanism shall agree upon arrangements to give effect to the above paragraphs, which shall include the following:</p>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>(a)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Modalities to ensure that the funded projects to address climate change are in conformity with the policies, programme priorities and eligibility criteria established by the Conference of the Parties;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(b)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Modalities by which a particular funding decision may be reconsidered in light of these policies, programme priorities and eligibility criteria; </p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(c)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Provision by the entity or entities of regular reports to the Conference of the Parties on its funding operations, which is consistent with the requirement for accountability set out in paragraph 1 above; and</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(d)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Determination in a predictable and identifiable manner of the amount of funding necessary and available for the implementation of this Convention and the conditions under which that amount shall be periodically reviewed.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </item>
                         <label>4.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.70">The Conference of the Parties shall make arrangements to implement the above-mentioned provisions at its first session, reviewing and taking into account the interim arrangements referred to in Article 21, paragraph 3, and shall decide whether these interim arrangements shall be maintained. Within four years thereafter, the Conference of the Parties shall review the financial mechanism and take appropriate measures.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>5.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.71">The developed country Parties may also provide, and developing country Parties avail themselves of financial resources related to the implementation of the Convention through bilateral, regional and other multilateral channels.</p>
                         </item>
                    </gen-list>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>Article 12</heading>
                    <gen-list>
                         <label>1.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.73">In accordance with Article 4, paragraph 1, each Party shall communicate to the Conference of the Parties, through the secretariat, the following elements of information:</p>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>(a)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>A national inventory of anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of all greenhouse gases not controlled by the Montreal Protocol, to the extent its capacities permit, using comparable methodologies to be promoted and agreed upon by the Conference of the Parties;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(b)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>A general description of steps taken or envisaged by the Party to implement the Convention; and</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(c)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Any other information that the Party considers relevant to the achievement of the objective of the Convention and suitable for inclusion in its communication, including, if feasible, material relevant for calculations of global emission trends.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </item>
                         <label>2.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.74">Each developed country Party and each other Party included in Annex I shall incorporate in its communication the following elements of information:</p>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>(a)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>A detailed description of the policies and measures that it has adopted to implement its commitment under Article 4, paragraphs 2(a) and 2(b); and </p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(b)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>A specific estimate of the effects that [those] policies and measures will have on anthropogenic emissions by its sources and removals by its sinks of greenhouse gases during the period referred to in Article 4, paragraph 2(a).</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </item>
                         <label>3.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.75">In addition, each developed country Party and each other developed Party included in Annex II shall incorporate details of measures taken in accordance with Article 4, paragraphs 3, 4 and&#160;5.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>4.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.76">Developing country Parties may, on a voluntary basis, propose projects for financing, including specific technologies, materials, equipment, techniques or practices that would be needed to implement such projects, along with, if possible, an estimate of all incremental costs, of the reductions of emissions and increments of removals of greenhouse gases, as well as an estimate of the consequent benefits.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>5.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.77">Each developed country Party and each other Party included in Annex I shall make its initial communication within six months of the entry into force of the Convention for that Party. Each Party not so listed shall make its initial communication within three years of the entry into force of the Convention for that Party, or of the availability of financial resources in accordance with Article 4, paragraph 3. Parties that are least developed countries may make their initial communication at their discretion. The frequency of subsequent communications by all Parties shall be determined by the Conference of the Parties, taking into account the differentiated timetable set by this paragraph.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>6.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.78">Information communicated by Parties under this Article shall be transmitted by the secretariat as soon as possible to the Conference of the Parties and to any subsidiary bodies concerned. If necessary, the procedures for the communication of information may be further considered by the Conference of the Parties.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>7.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.79">From its first session, the Conference of the Parties shall arrange for the provision to developing country Parties of technical and financial support, on request, in compiling and communicating information under this Article, as well as in identifying the technical and financial needs associated with proposed projects and response measures under Article 4. Such support may be provided by other parties, by competent international organizations and by the secretariat, as appropriate.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>8.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.80">Any group of Parties may, subject to guidelines adopted by the Conference of the Parties, and to prior notification to the Conference of the Parties, make a joint communication in fulfilment of their obligations under this Article, provided that such a communication includes information on the fulfilment by each of these Parties of its individual obligations under the Convention.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>9.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.81">Information received by the secretariat that is designated by a Party as confidential, in accordance with criteria to be established by the Conference of the Parties, shall be aggregated by the secretariat to protect its confidentiality before being made available to any of the bodies involved in the communication and review of information.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>10.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.82">Subject to paragraph 9 above, and without prejudice to the ability of any Party to make public its communication at any time, the secretariat shall make communications by Parties under this Article publicly available at the time they are submitted to the Conference of the Parties.</p>
                         </item>
                    </gen-list>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>Article 13</heading>
                    <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.84">The Conference of the Parties shall, at its first session, consider the establishment of a multilateral consultative process, available to Parties on their request, for the resolution of questions regarding the implementation of the Convention.</p>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>Article 14</heading>
                    <gen-list>
                         <label>1.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.86">In the event of a dispute between any two or more Parties concerning the interpretation or application of the Convention, the Parties concerned shall seek a settlement of the dispute through negotiation or any other peaceful means of their own choice.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>2.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.87">
              When ratifying, accepting, approving or acceding to the Convention, or at any time thereafter, a Party which is not a regional economic integration organization may declare in a written instrument submitted to the Depositary that, in respect of any dispute concerning the interpretation or application of the Convention, it recognizes as compulsory 
              <i>ipso facto</i>
               and without special agreement, in relation to any Party accepting the same obligation:
            </p>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>(a)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Submission of the dispute to the International Court of Justice, and/or</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(b)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Arbitration in accordance with procedures to be adopted by the Conference of the Parties as soon as practicable, in an annex on arbitration.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.88">A Party which is a regional economic integration organization may make a declaration with like effect in relation to arbitration in accordance with the procedures referred to in sub-paragraph (b) above.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>3.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.89">A declaration made under paragraph 2 above shall remain in force until it expires in accordance with its terms or until three months after written notice of its revocation has been deposited with the Depositary.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>4.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.90">A new declaration, a notice of revocation or the expiry of a declaration shall not in any way affect proceedings pending before the International Court of Justice or the arbitral tribunal, unless the parties to the dispute otherwise agree.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>5.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.91">Subject to the operation of paragraph 2 above, if after 12 months following notification by one Party to another that a dispute exists between them, the Parties concerned have not been able to settle their dispute through the means mentioned in paragraph 1 above, the dispute shall be submitted, at the request of any of the parties to the dispute, to conciliation.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>6.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.92">A conciliation commission shall be created upon the request of one of the parties to the dispute. The commission shall be composed of an equal number of members appointed by each party concerned and a chairman chosen jointly by the members appointed by each party. The commission shall render a recommendatory award, which the parties shall consider in good faith...</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>7.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.93">Additional procedures relating to conciliation shall be adopted by the Conference of the Parties, as soon as practicable, in an annex on conciliation.</p>
                         </item>
                    </gen-list>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>Article 15</heading>
                    <gen-list>
                         <label>1.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.95">Any Party may propose amendments to the Convention.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>2.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.96">Amendments to the Convention shall be adopted at an ordinary session of the Conference of the Parties. The text of any proposed amendment to the Convention shall be communicated to the Parties by the secretariat at least six months before the meeting at which it is proposed for adoption. The secretariat shall also communicate proposed amendments to the signatories to the Convention and, for information, to the Depositary [the Secretary-General of the UN].</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>3.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.97">The Parties shall make every effort to reach agreement on any proposed amendment to the Convention by consensus. If all efforts at consensus have been exhausted, and no agreement reached, the amendment shall as a last resort be adopted by a three-fourths majority vote of the Parties present and voting at the meeting. The adopted amendment shall be communicated by the secretariat to the Depositary, who shall circulate it to all Parties for their acceptance.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>4.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.98">Instruments of acceptance in respect of an amendment shall be deposited with the Depositary. An amendment adopted in accordance with paragraph 3 above shall enter into force for those Parties having accepted it on the ninetieth day after the date of receipt by the Depositary of an instrument of acceptance by at least three-fourths of the Parties to the Convention.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>5.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.99">The amendment shall enter into force for any other Party on the ninetieth day after the date on which that Party deposits with the Depositary its instrument of acceptance of the said amendment.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>6.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p>For the purposes of this Article, “Parties present and voting” means Parties present and casting an affirmative or negative vote.</p>
                         </item>
                    </gen-list>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>Article 16</heading>
                    <gen-list>
                         <label>1.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.101">Annexes to the Convention shall form an integral part thereof and, unless otherwise expressly provided, a reference to the Convention constitutes at the same time a reference to any annexes thereto. Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 14, paragraphs 2(b) and 7, such annexes shall be restricted to lists, forms and any other material of a descriptive nature that is of a scientific, technical, procedural or administrative character.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>2.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.102">Annexes to the Convention shall be proposed and adopted in accordance with the procedure set forth in Article 15, paragraphs 2, 3 and 4.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>3.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.103">An annex that has been adopted in accordance with paragraph 2 above shall enter into force for all Parties to the Convention six months after the date of the communication by the Depositary to such Parties of the adoption of the annex, except for those Parties that have notified the Depositary, in writing, within that period of their non-acceptance of the annex. The annex shall enter into force for Parties which withdraw their notification of non-acceptance on the ninetieth day after the date on which withdrawal of such notification has been received by the Depositary.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>4.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.104">The proposal, adoption and entry into force of amendments to annexes to the Convention shall be subject to the same procedure as that for the proposal, adoption and entry into force of annexes to the Convention in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 above.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>5.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.105">If the adoption of an annex or an amendment to an annex involves an amendment to the Convention, that annex or amendment to an annex shall not enter into force until such time as the amendment to the Convention enters into force.</p>
                         </item>
                    </gen-list>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>Article 17</heading>
                    <gen-list>
                         <label>1.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.107">The Conference of the Parties may, at any ordinary session, adopt protocols to the Convention.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>2.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.108">The text of any proposed protocol shall be communicated to the Parties by the secretariat at least six months before such a session.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>3.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.109">The requirements for the entry into force of any protocol shall be established by that instrument.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>4.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.110">Only Parties to the Convention may be Parties to a protocol.</p>
                         </item>
                         <label>5.</label>
                         <item>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.111">Decisions under any protocol shall be taken only by the Parties to the protocol concerned.</p>
                         </item>
                    </gen-list>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>Articles 18-26</heading>
                    <p id="WMO.EDIO.1.113">Voting, ratification, withdrawal and other general provisions.</p>
               </legal-block>
          </legal-block>
          <legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>ANNEX I</heading>
               </legal-block>
          </legal-block>
          <table-block-simple id="WMO.EDIO.1.115" type="OTHER">
               <table style="WITHOUT-RULES">
                    <tgroup cols="2">
                         <colspec colwidth="9cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="9cm" />
                         <tbody>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Australia</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Japan</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Austria</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Latvia
                <endnoteref idref="WMO.EDIO.1.116" ref-symbol="*" />
                                   </entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Belarus
                <endnoteref idref="WMO.EDIO.1.116" ref-symbol="*" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Lithuania
                <endnoteref idref="WMO.EDIO.1.116" ref-symbol="*" />
                                   </entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Belgium</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Luxembourg</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Bulgaria
                <endnoteref idref="WMO.EDIO.1.116" ref-symbol="*" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Netherlands</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Canada</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">New Zealand</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Czechoslovakia
                <endnoteref idref="WMO.EDIO.1.116" ref-symbol="*" />
                                        <endnoteref idref="WMO.EDIO.1.117" ref-symbol="†" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Norway</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Denmark</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Poland
                <endnoteref idref="WMO.EDIO.1.116" ref-symbol="*" />
                                   </entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">European Economic </entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Portugal</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">&#8195;Community</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Romania
                <endnoteref idref="WMO.EDIO.1.116" ref-symbol="*" />
                                   </entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Estonia
                <endnoteref idref="WMO.EDIO.1.116" ref-symbol="*" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Russian Federation
                <endnoteref idref="WMO.EDIO.1.116" ref-symbol="*" />
                                   </entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Finland</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Spain</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">France</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Sweden</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Germany</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Switzerland</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Greece</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Türkiye (Turkey)</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Hungary
                <endnoteref idref="WMO.EDIO.1.116" ref-symbol="*" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Ukraine
                <endnoteref idref="WMO.EDIO.1.116" ref-symbol="*" />
                                   </entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Iceland</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">United Kingdom</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Ireland</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">United States of America</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Italy</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                              </row>
                         </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
               </table>
               <endnote id="WMO.EDIO.1.116" ref-symbol="*">Countries that are undergoing the process of transition to a market economy</endnote>
               <endnote id="WMO.EDIO.1.117" ref-symbol="†">Czechoslovakia was succeeded by the Czech Republic and Slovakia from 31 December 1992</endnote>
          </table-block-simple>
          <legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>ANNEX II</heading>
               </legal-block>
          </legal-block>
          <table-block-simple id="WMO.EDIO.1.119" type="OTHER">
               <table style="WITHOUT-RULES">
                    <tgroup cols="2">
                         <colspec colwidth="8cm" />
                         <tbody>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Australia</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Italy</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Austria</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Japan</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Belgium</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Luxembourg</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Canada</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Netherlands</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Denmark</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">New Zealand</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">European Economic</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Norway</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">&#8195;Community</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Portugal</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Finland</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Spain</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">France</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Sweden</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Germany</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Switzerland</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Greece</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Türkiye (Turkey)</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Iceland</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">United Kingdom</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Ireland</entry>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">United States of America</entry>
                              </row>
                         </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
               </table>
          </table-block-simple>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="UNEP.EDIO.2.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="edio">
          <heading>Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change</heading>
          <heading-note>11 December 1997</heading-note>
          <legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.2">The Parties to this Protocol,</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.3">Being Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, hereinafter referred to as ``the Convention'',</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.4">In pursuit of the ultimate objective of the Convention as stated in its Article 2,</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.5">Recalling the provisions of the Convention,</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.6">Being guided by Article 3 of the Convention,</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.7">Pursuant to the Berlin Mandate adopted by decision 1/CP.1 of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention at its first session,</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.8">Have agreed as follows</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 1</heading>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.10">[Definitions]</p>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 2</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.12">Each Party included in Annex I, in achieving its quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments under Article 3, in order to promote sustainable development, shall:</p>
                                        <gen-list>
                                             <label>(a)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Implement and/or further elaborate policies and measures in accordance with its national circumstances, such as:</p>
                                                  <gen-list>
                                                       <label>(i)</label>
                                                       <item>
                                                            <p>Enhancement of energy efficiency in relevant sectors of the national economy;</p>
                                                       </item>
                                                       <label>(ii)</label>
                                                       <item>
                                                            <p>Protection and enhancement of sinks and reservoirs of greenhouse gases not controlled by the Montreal Protocol, taking into account its commitments under relevant international environmental agreements; promotion of sustainable forest management practices, afforestation and reforestation;</p>
                                                       </item>
                                                       <label>(iii)</label>
                                                       <item>
                                                            <p>Promotion of sustainable forms of agriculture in light of climate change considerations;</p>
                                                       </item>
                                                       <label>(iv)</label>
                                                       <item>
                                                            <p>Research on, and promotion, development and increased use of, new and renewable forms of energy, of carbon dioxide sequestration technologies and of advanced and innovative environmentally sound technologies;</p>
                                                       </item>
                                                       <label>(v)</label>
                                                       <item>
                                                            <p>Progressive reduction or phasing out of market imperfections, fiscal incentives, tax and duty exemptions and subsidies in all greenhouse gas emitting sectors that run counter to the objective of the Convention and application of market instruments;</p>
                                                       </item>
                                                       <label>(vi)</label>
                                                       <item>
                                                            <p>Encouragement of appropriate reforms in relevant sectors aimed at promoting policies and measures which limit or reduce emissions of greenhouse gases not controlled by the Montreal Protocol;</p>
                                                       </item>
                                                       <label>(vii)</label>
                                                       <item>
                                                            <p>Measures to limit and/or reduce emissions of greenhouse gases not controlled by the Montreal Protocol in the transport sector;</p>
                                                       </item>
                                                       <label>(viii)</label>
                                                       <item>
                                                            <p>Limitation and/or reduction of methane emissions through recovery and use in waste management, as well as in the production, transport and distribution of energy</p>
                                                       </item>
                                                  </gen-list>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(b)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Co-operate with other such Parties to enhance the individual and combined effectiveness of their policies and measures adopted under this Article, pursuant to Article 4, paragraph 2(e)(i), of the Convention. To this end, these Parties shall take steps to share their experience and exchange information on such policies and measures, including developing ways of improving their comparability, transparency and effectiveness. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol shall, at its first session or as soon as practicable thereafter, consider ways to facilitate such co-operation, taking into account all relevant information.</p>
                                             </item>
                                        </gen-list>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.13">The Parties included in Annex I shall pursue limitation or reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases not controlled by the Montreal Protocol from aviation and marine bunker fuels, working through the International Civil Aviation Organization and the International Maritime Organization, respectively.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>3.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.14">The Parties included in Annex I shall strive to implement policies and measures under this Article in such a way as to minimize adverse effects, including the adverse effects of climate change, effects on international trade, and social, environmental and economic impacts on other Parties, especially developing country Parties and in particular those identified in Article 4, paragraphs 8 and 9, of the Convention, taking into account Article 3 of the Convention. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol may take further actions, as appropriate, to promote the implementation of the provisions of this paragraph. </p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>4.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.15">The Conference of the Parties..., if it decides that it would be beneficial to co-ordinate any of the policies and measures in paragraph 1(a) above, taking into account different national circumstances and potential effects, shall consider ways and means to elaborate the co-ordination of such policies and measures.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 3</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.17">The Parties included in Annex I shall, individually or jointly, ensure that their aggregate anthropogenic carbon dioxide equivalent emissions of the greenhouse gases listed in Annex A do not exceed their assigned amounts, calculated pursuant to their qualified emission limitation and reduction commitments inscribed in Annex B and in accordance with the provisions of this Article, with a view to reducing their overall emissions of such gases by at least 5 per cent below 1990 levels in the commitment period 2008 to 2012.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.18">Each Party included in Annex I shall, by 2005, have made demonstrable progress in achieving its commitments under this Protocol.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>3.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.19">The net changes in greenhouse gas emissions by sources and removals by sinks resulting from direct human-induced land-use change and forestry activities, limited to afforestation, reforestation and deforestation since 1990, measured as verifiable changes in carbon stocks in each commitment period, shall be used to meet the commitments under this Article of each Party included in Annex I. The greenhouse gas emissions by sources and removals by sinks associated with those activities shall be reported in a transparent and verifiable manner and reviewed in accordance with Articles 7 and 8.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>4.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.20">Prior to the first session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol, each Party included in Annex I shall provide, for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice, data to establish its level of carbon stocks in 1990 and to enable an estimate to be made of its changes in carbon stocks in subsequent years. The Conference of the Parties...shall, at its first session or as soon as practicable thereafter, decide upon modalities, rules and guidelines as to how, and which, additional human-induced activities related to changes in greenhouse gas emissions by sources and removals by sinks in the agricultural soils and the land-use change and forestry categories shall be added to, or subtracted from, the assigned amounts for Parties included in Annex I, taking into account uncertainties, transparency in reporting, verifiability, the methodological work of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the advice provided by the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice in accordance with Article 5 and the decisions of the Conference of the Parties. Such a decision shall apply in the second and subsequent commitment periods. A Party may choose to apply such a decision on these additional human-induced activities for its first commitment period, provided that these activities have taken place since 1990.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>5.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.21">The Parties included in Annex I undergoing the process of transition to a market economy whose base year or period was established pursuant to decision 9/CP.2 of the Conference of the Parties at its second session shall use that base year or period for the implementation of their commitments under this Article. Any other Party included in Annex I undergoing the process of transition to a market economy which has not yet submitted its first national communication under Article 12 of the Convention may also notify the Conference of the Parties...that it intends to use an historical base year or period other than 1990 for the implementation of its commitments under this Article. The Conference of the Parties...shall decide on the acceptance of such notification.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>6.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.22">Taking into account Article 4, paragraph 6, of the Convention, in the implementation of their commitments under this Protocol other than those under this Article, a certain degree of flexibility shall be allowed by the Conference of the Parties...to the Parties included in Annex I undergoing the process of transition to a market economy.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>7.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.23">In the first quantified emission limitation and reduction commitment period, from 2008 to 2012, the assigned amount for each Party included in Annex I shall be equal to the percentage inscribed for it in Annex B of its aggregate anthropogenic carbon dioxide equivalent emissions of the greenhouse gases listed in Annex A in 1990, or the base year or period determined in accordance with paragraph 5 above, multiplied by five. Those Parties included in Annex I for whom land-use change and forestry constituted a net source of greenhouse gas emissions in 1990 shall include in their 1990 emissions base year or period the aggregate anthropogenic carbon dioxide equivalent emissions by sources minus removals by sinks in 1990 from land-use change for the purposes of calculating their assigned amount.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>8.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.24">Any Party included in Annex I may use 1995 as its base year for hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride, for the purposes of the calculation referred to in paragraph 7 above.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>9.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.25">Commitments for subsequent periods for Parties included in Annex I shall be established in amendments to Annex B to this Protocol, which shall be adopted in accordance with the provisions of Article 21, paragraph 7. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol shall initiate the consideration of such commitments at least seven years before the end of the first commitment period referred to in paragraph 1 above.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>10.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.26">Any emission reduction units, or any part of an assigned amount, which a Party acquires from another Party in accordance with the provisions of Article 6 or Article 17 shall be added to the assigned amount for the acquiring Party.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>11.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.27">Any emission reduction units, or any part of an assigned amount, which a Party transfers to another Party in accordance with the provisions of Article 6 or of Article 17 shall be subtracted from the assigned amount for the transferring Party.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>12.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.28">Any certified emission reductions which a Party acquires from another Party in accordance with the provisions of Article 12 shall be added to the assigned amount for the acquiring Party.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>13.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.29">If the emissions of a Party included in Annex I in a commitment period are less than its assigned amount under this Article, this difference shall, on request of that Party, be added to the assigned amount for that Party for subsequent commitment periods.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>14.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.30">Each Party included in Annex I shall strive to implement the commitments mentioned in paragraph 1 above in such a way as to minimize adverse social, environmental and economic impacts on developing country Parties, particularly those identified in Article 4, paragraphs 8 and 9, for the Convention. In line with relevant decisions...on the implementation of those paragraphs, the Conference of the Parties...shall, at its first session, consider what actions are necessary to minimize the adverse effects of climate change and/or the impacts of response measures on Parties referred to in those paragraphs. Among the issues to be considered shall be the establishment of funding, insurance and transfer of technology.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 4</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.32">Any Parties included in Annex I that have reached an agreement to fulfil their commitments under Article 3 jointly, shall be deemed to have met those commitments provided that their total combined aggregate anthropogenic carbon dioxide equivalent emissions of the greenhouse gases listed in Annex A do not exceed their assigned amounts calculated pursuant to their quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments inscribed in Annex B and in accordance with the provisions of Article 3. The respective emission level allocated to each of the Parties to the agreement shall be set out in that agreement.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.33">The Parties to any such agreement shall notify the secretariat of the terms of the agreement on the date of deposit of their instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval of this Protocol, or accession thereto. The secretariat shall in turn inform the Parties and signatories to the Convention of the terms of the agreement.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>3.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.34">Any such agreement shall remain in operation for the duration of the commitment period specified in Article 3, paragraph 7.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>4.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.35">If Parties acting jointly do so in the framework of, and together with, a regional economic integration organization, any alteration in the composition of the organization after adoption of this Protocol shall not affect existing commitments under this Protocol. Any alteration in the composition of the organization shall only apply for the purposes of those commitments under Article 3 that are adopted subsequent to that alteration.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>5.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.36">In the event of failure by the Parties to such an agreement to achieve their total combined level of emission reductions, each Party to that agreement shall be responsible for its own level of emissions set out in the agreement.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>6.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.37">If Parties acting jointly do so in the framework of, and together with, a regional economic integration organization which is itself a Party to this Protocol, each member State of that regional economic integration organization individually, and together with the regional economic integration organization acting in accordance with Article 24, shall, in the event of failure to achieve the total combined level of emission reductions, be responsible for its level of emissions as notified in accordance with this Article.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 5</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.39">Each Party included in Annex I shall have in place, no later than one year prior to the start of the first commitment period, a national system for the estimation of anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of all greenhouse gases not controlled by the Montreal Protocol. Guidelines for such national systems, which shall incorporate the methodologies specified in paragraph 2 below, shall be decided upon by the Conference of the Parties...at its first session.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.40">
                  Methodologies for estimating anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of all greenhouse gases not controlled by the Montreal Protocol shall be those accepted by the IPCC and agreed upon by the Conference of the Parties at its third session. Where such methodologies are not used, appropriate adjustments shall be applied according to methodologies agreed upon by the Conference of the Parties. Based on the work of, 
                  <i>inter alia,</i>
                   the IPCC and advice provided by the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice, the Conference of the Parties shall regularly review and, as appropriate, revise such methodologies and adjustments, taking fully into account any relevant decisions by the Conference of the Parties. Any revision to methodologies or adjustments shall be used only for the purposes of ascertaining compliance with commitments under Article 3 in respect of any commitment period adopted subsequent to that revision.
                </p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>3.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.41">
                  The global warming potentials used to calculate the carbon dioxide equivalence of anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of greenhouse gases listed in Annex A shall be those accepted by the IPCC and agreed upon by the Conference of the Parties at its third session. Based on the work of, 
                  <i>inter alia,</i>
                   the IPCC and advice provided by the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice, the Conference of the Parties...shall regularly review and, as appropriate, revise the global warming potential of each such greenhouse gas, taking fully into account any relevant decisions by the Conference of the Parties. Any revision to a global warming potential shall apply only to commitments under Article 3 in respect of any commitment period adopted subsequent to that revision.
                </p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 6</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.43">For the purpose of meeting its commitments under Article 3, any Party included in Annex I may transfer to, or acquire from, any other such Party emission reduction units resulting from projects aimed at reducing anthropogenic emissions by sources or enhancing anthropogenic removals by sinks of greenhouse gases in any sector of the economy, provided that:</p>
                                        <gen-list>
                                             <label>(a)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Any such project has the approval of the Parties involved;</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(b)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Any such project provides a reduction in emissions by sources, or an enhancement of removals by sinks, that is additional to any that would otherwise occur;</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(c)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>It does not acquire any emission reduction units if it is not in compliance with its obligations under Articles 5 and 7; and</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(d)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>The acquisition of emission reduction units shall be supplemental to domestic actions for the purposes of meeting commitments under Article 3.</p>
                                             </item>
                                        </gen-list>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.44">The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol may, at its first session or as soon as practicable thereafter, further elaborate guidelines for the implementation of this Article, including for verification and reporting.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>3.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.45">A Party included in Annex I may authorize legal entities to participate, under its responsibility, in actions leading to the generation, transfer or acquisition under this Article of emission reduction units.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>4.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.46">If a question of implementation by a Party included in Annex I of the requirements referred to in this Article is identified in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article 8, transfers and acquisitions of emission reduction units may continue to be made after the question has been identified, provided that any such units may not be used by a Party to meet its commitments under Article 3 until any issue of compliance is resolved.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 7</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.48">Each Party included in Annex I shall incorporate in its annual inventory of anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of greenhouse gases not controlled by the Montreal Protocol, submitted in accordance with the relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties, the necessary supplementary information for the purposes of ensuring compliance with Article 3, to be determined in accordance with paragraph 4 below.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.49">Each Party included in Annex I shall incorporate in its national communication, submitted under Article 12 of the Convention, the supplementary information necessary to demonstrate compliance with its commitments under this Protocol, to be determined in accordance with paragraph 4 below.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>3.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="UNEP.EDIO.2.50">Each Party included in Annex I shall submit the information required under paragraph 1 above annually, beginning with the first inventory due under the Convention for the first year of the commitment period after this Protocol has entered into force for that Party. Each such Party shall submit the information required under paragraph 2 above as part of the first national communication due under the Convention after this Protocol has entered into force and after the adoption of guidelines as provided for in paragraph 4 below. The frequency of subsequent submission of information required under this Article shall be determined by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol, taking into account any timetable for the submission of national communications decided upon by the Conference of the Parties.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>4.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.51">The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol shall adopt at its first session, and review periodically thereafter, guidelines of the preparation of the information required under this Article, taking into account guidelines for the preparation of national communications by Parties included in Annex I adopted by the Conference of the Parties. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol shall also, prior to the first commitment period, decide upon modalities for the accounting of assigned amounts.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 8</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.53">The information submitted under Article 7 by each Party included in Annex I shall be reviewed by expert review teams...as part of the annual compilation and accounting of emissions inventories and assigned amounts... [and] as part of the review of communications.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.54">Expert review teams shall be co-ordinated by the secretariat and shall be composed of experts selected from those nominated by Parties to the Convention and, as appropriate, by intergovernmental organizations, in accordance with guidance provided for this purpose by the Conference of the Parties.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>3.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.55">The review process shall provide a thorough and comprehensive technical assessment of all aspects of the implementation by a Party of this Protocol. The export review teams shall prepare a report to the Conference of the Parties...assessing the implementation of the commitments of the Party and identifying any potential problems in, and factors influencing, the fulfilment of commitments. Such reports shall be circulated by the secretariat to all Parties to the Convention. The secretariat shall list those questions of implementation indicated in such reports for further consideration by the Conference of the Parties...</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>4.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.56">The Conference of the Parties...shall adopt at its first session, and review periodically thereafter, guidelines for the review of implementation of this Protocol by expert review teams taking into account the relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 9</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.58">The Conference of the Parties...shall periodically review this Protocol in the light of the best available scientific information and assessments on climate change and its impacts, as well as relevant technical, social and economic information. Such reviews shall be coordinated with pertinent reviews under the Convention, in particular those required by Article 4, paragraph 2(d), and Article 7, paragraph 2(a), of the Convention. Based on these reviews, the Conference of the Parties...shall take appropriate action.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.59">The first review shall take place at the second session of the Conference of the Parties... Further reviews shall take place at regular intervals and in a timely manner.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 10</heading>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.61">All Parties, taking into account their common but differentiated responsibilities and their specific national and regional development priorities, objectives and circumstances, without introducing any new commitments for Parties not included in Annex I, but reaffirming existing commitments under Article 4, paragraph 1, of the Convention, and continuing to advance the implementation of these commitments in order to achieve sustainable development, taking into account Article 4, paragraphs 3, 5 and 7, of the Convention, shall:</p>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>(a)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Formulate, where relevant and to the extent possible, cost-effective national and, where appropriate, regional programmes to improve the quality of local emission factors, activity data and/or models which reflect the socioeconomic conditions of each Party for the preparation and periodic updating of national inventories of anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of all greenhouse gases not controlled by the Montreal Protocol, using comparable methodologies to be agreed upon by the Conference of the Parties, and consistent with the guidelines for the preparation of national communications adopted by the Conference of the Parties;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(b)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Formulate, implement, publish and regularly update national and, where appropriate, regional programmes containing measures to mitigate climate change and measures to facilitate adequate adaptation to climate change:</p>
                                        <gen-list>
                                             <label>(i)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>
                      Such programme would, 
                      <i>inter alia,</i>
                       concern the energy, transport and industry sectors as well as agriculture, forestry and waste management. Furthermore, adaptation technologies and methods for improving spatial planning would improve adaptation to climate change; and
                    </p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(ii)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Parties included in Annex I shall submit information on action under this Protocol, including national programmes, in accordance with Article 7; and other Parties shall seek to include in their national communications, as appropriate, information on programmes which contain measures that the Party believes contribute to addressing climate change and its adverse impacts, including the abatement of increases in greenhouse gas emissions, and enhancement of and removals by sinks, capacity building and adaptation measures</p>
                                             </item>
                                        </gen-list>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(c)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Co-operate in the promotion of effective modalities for the development, application and diffusion of, and take all practicable steps to promote, facilitate and finance, as appropriate, the transfer of, or access to, environmentally sound technologies, know-how, practices and processes pertinent to climate change, in particular to developing countries, including the formulation of policies and programmes for the effective transfer of environmentally sound technologies that are publicly owned or in the public domain and the creation of an enabling environment for the private sector, to promote and enhance the transfer of, and access to, environmentally sound technologies;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(d)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Co-operate in scientific and technical research and promote the maintenance and the development of systematic observation systems and development of data archives to reduce uncertainties related to the climate system, the adverse impacts of climate change and the economic and social consequences of various response strategies, and promote the development and strengthening of endogenous capacities and capabilities to participate in international and intergovernmental efforts, programmes and networks on research and systematic observation, taking into account Article 5 of the Convention;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(e)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Co-operate in and promote at the international level, and, where appropriate, using existing bodies, the development and implementation of education and training programmes, including the strengthening of national capacity building, in particular human and institutional capacities and the exchange or secondment of personnel to train experts in this field, in particular for developing countries, and facilitate at the national level public awareness of, and public access to information on, climate change. Suitable modalities should be developed to implement these activities through the relevant bodies of the Convention, taking into account Article 6 of the Convention;</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(f)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Include in their national communications information on programmes and activities undertaken pursuant to this Article in accordance with relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties; and</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>(g)</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Give full consideration, in implementing the commitments under this Article, to Article 4, paragraph 8, of the Convention.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 11</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.63">In the context of the implementation of Article 4, paragraph 1, of the Convention, in accordance with the provisions of Article 4, paragraph 3, and Article 11 of the Convention, and through the entity or entities entrusted with the operation of the financial mechanism of the Convention, the developed country Parties and other developed Parties included in Annex II to the Convention shall:</p>
                                        <gen-list>
                                             <label>(a)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Provide new and additional financial resources to meet the agreed full costs incurred by developing country Parties in advancing the implementation of existing commitments under Article 4, paragraph 1(a)...; and</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(b)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>
                      Also provide such financial resources, including for the transfer of technology, needed by the developing country Parties to meet the agreed full incremental costs of advancing the implementation of existing commitments under Article 4, paragraph 1, of the Convention that are covered by Article 10 and that are agreed between a developing country Party and the international entity or entities referred to in Article 11 of the Convention, in accordance with that Article. The implementation of these existing commitments shall take into account the need for adequacy and predictability in the flow of funds and the importance of appropriate burden-sharing among developed country Parties. The guidance to the entity or entities entrusted with the operation of the financial mechanism of the Convention in relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties, including those agreed before the adoption of this Protocol, shall apply 
                      <i>mutatis mutandis</i>
                       to the provisions of this paragraph. 
                    </p>
                                             </item>
                                        </gen-list>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>3.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.64">The developed country Parties and other developed Parties in Annex II to the Convention may also provide, and developing country Parties avail themselves of, financial resources for the implementation of Article 10, through bilateral, regional and other multilateral channels.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 12</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.66">A clean development mechanism is hereby defined.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.67">The purpose of the clean development mechanism shall be to assist Parties not included in Annex I in achieving sustainable development and in contributing to the ultimate objective of the Convention, and to assist Parties included in Annex I in achieving compliance with their quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments under Article 3.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>3.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.68">Under the clean development mechanism:</p>
                                        <gen-list>
                                             <label>(a)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Parties not included in Annex I will benefit from project activities resulting in certified emission reductions; and</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(b)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Parties included in Annex I may use the certified emission reductions accruing from such project activities to contribute to compliance with part of their quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments under Article 3, as determined by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol.</p>
                                             </item>
                                        </gen-list>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>4.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.69">The clean development mechanism shall be subject to the authority and guidance of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol and be supervised by an executive board of the clean development mechanism.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>5.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.70">Emission reductions resulting from each project activity shall be certified by operational entities to be designated by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol, on the basis of:</p>
                                        <gen-list>
                                             <label>(a)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Voluntary participation approved by each Party involved;</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(b)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Real, measurable, and long-term benefits related to the mitigation of climate change; and</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(c)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Reductions in emissions that are additional to any that would occur in the absence of the certified project activity.</p>
                                             </item>
                                        </gen-list>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>6.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.71">The clean development mechanism shall assist in arranging funding of certified project activities as necessary.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>7.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.72">The Conference of the Parties...shall elaborate modalities and procedures with the objective of ensuring transparency, efficiency and accountability through independent auditing and verification of project activities.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>8.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.73">The Conference of the Parties...shall ensure that a share of the proceeds from certified project activities is used to cover administrative expenses as well as to assist developing country Parties that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change to meet the costs of adaptation.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>9.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.74">Participation under the clean development mechanism, including in activities mentioned in paragraph 3(a) above and in the acquisition of certified emission reductions, may involve private and/or public entities, and is to be subject to whatever guidance may be provided by the executive board of the clean development mechanism.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>10.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.75">Certified emission reductions obtained during the period from the year 2000 up to the beginning of the first commitment period can be used to assist in achieving compliance in the first commitment period.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 13</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.77">The Conference of the Parties, the supreme body of the Convention, shall serve as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2-8</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.78">[Duties and rules of procedure of the Conference of the Parties]</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 14</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.80">The secretariat established by Article 8 of the Convention shall serve as the secretariat of this Protocol.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.81">
                  Article 8, paragraph 2, of the Convention on the functions of the secretariat, and Article 8, paragraph 3, of the Convention on arrangements made for the functioning of the secretariat, shall apply 
                  <i> mutatis mutandis</i>
                   to this Protocol. The secretariat shall, in addition, exercise the functions assigned to it under this Protocol.
                </p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 15</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.83">
                  The Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice and the Subsidiary Body for Implementation established by Articles 9 and 10 of the Convention shall serve as, respectively, the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice and the Subsidiary Body for Implementation of this Protocol. The provisions relating to the functioning of these two bodies under the Convention shall apply 
                  <i>mutatis mutandis</i>
                   to this Protocol. Sessions of the meetings of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice and the Subsidiary Body for Implementation of this Protocol shall be held in conjunction with the meetings of, respectively, the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice and the Subsidiary Body for Implementation of the Convention.
                </p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.84">Parties to the Convention that are not Parties to this Protocol may participate as observers in the proceedings of any session of the subsidiary bodies. When the subsidiary bodies serve as the subsidiary bodies of this Protocol, decisions under this Protocol shall be taken only by those that are Parties to this Protocol...</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 16</heading>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.86">The Conference of the Parties...shall, as soon as praticable, consider the application to this Protocol of, and modify as appropriate, the multilateral consultative process referred to in Article 13 of the Convention, in the light of any relevant decisions that may be taken by the Conference of the Parties. Any multilateral consultative process that may be applied to this Protocol shall operate without prejudice to the procedures and mechanisms established in accordance with Article 18.</p>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 17</heading>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.88">The Conference of the Parties shall define the relevant principles, modalities, rules and guidelines, in particular for verification, reporting and accountability for emissions trading. The Parties included in Annex B may participate in emissions trading for the purposes of fulfilling their commitments under Article 3. Any such trading shall be supplemental to domestic actions for the purpose of meeting quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments under that Article.</p>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 18</heading>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.90">The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol shall, at its first session, approve appropriate and effective procedures and mechanisms to determine and to address cases of non-compliance with the provisions of this Protocol, including through the development of an indicative list of consequences, taking into account the cause, type, degree and frequency of non-compliance. Any procedures and mechanisms under this Article entailing binding consequences shall be adopted by means of an amendment to this Protocol.</p>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 19</heading>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.92">
              The provisions of Article 14 of the Convention on settlement of disputes shall apply 
              <i>mutatis mutandis</i>
               to this Protocol.
            </p>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 20</heading>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.94">[Amendments]</p>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 21</heading>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.96">[Annexes]</p>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Articles 22-28</heading>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.98">[Voting, ratification, reservations, etc.]</p>
                         </legal-block>
                    </legal-block>
               </legal-block>
          </legal-block>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="UNEP.EDIO.22.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="edio">
          <heading>Paris Agreement</heading>
          <heading-note>12 December 2015</heading-note>
          <legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.2">The Parties to this Protocol,</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.3">Being Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, hereinafter referred to as ``the Convention'',</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.4">Pursuant to the Durban Platform for Enhanced Action established by decision 1/CP.17 of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention at its seventeenth session,</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.5">In pursuit of the objective of the Convention, and being guided by its principles, including the principle of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities, in the light of different national circumstances,</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.6">Recognizing the need for an effective and progressive response to the urgent threat of climate change on the basis of the best available scientific knowledge,</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.7">Also recognizing the specific needs and special circumstances of developing country Parties, especially those that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change, as provided for in the Convention,</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p>Taking full account of the specific needs and special situations of the least developed countries with regard to funding and transfer of technology,</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p>Recognizing that Parties may be affected not only by climate change, but also by the impacts of the measures taken in response to it,</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p>Emphasizing the intrinsic relationship that climate change actions, responses and impacts have with equitable access to sustainable development and eradication of poverty,</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p>Recognizing the fundamental priority of safeguarding food security and ending hunger, and the particular vulnerabilities of food production systems to the adverse impacts of climate change,</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p>Taking into account the imperatives of a just transition of the workforce and the creation of decent work and quality jobs in accordance with nationally defined development priorities,</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p>Acknowledging that climate change is a common concern of humankind, Parties should, when taking action to address climate change, respect, promote and consider their respective obligations on human rights, the right to health, the rights of indigenous peoples, local communities, migrants, children, persons with disabilities and people in vulnerable situations and the right to development, as well as gender equality, empowerment of women and intergenerational equity,</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p>Recognizing the importance of the conservation and enhancement, as appropriate, of sinks and reservoirs of the greenhouse gases referred to in the Convention,</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p>Noting the importance of ensuring the integrity of all ecosystems, including oceans, and the protection of biodiversity, recognized by some cultures as Mother Earth, and noting the importance for some of the concept of “climate justice”, when taking action to address climate change,</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p>Affirming the importance of education, training, public awareness, public participation, public access to information and cooperation at all levels on the matters addressed in this Agreement,</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p>Recognizing the importance of the engagements of all levels of government and various actors, in accordance with respective national legislations of Parties, in addressing climate change,</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p>Also recognizing that sustainable lifestyles and sustainable patterns of consumption and production, with developed country Parties taking the lead, play an important role in addressing climate change,</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNEP.EDIO.22.8">Have agreed as follows</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 1</heading>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.10">[Definitions]</p>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 2</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="UNEP.EDIO.22.12">This Agreement, in enhancing the implementation of the Convention, including its objective, aims to strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change, in the context of sustainable development and efforts to eradicate poverty, including by:</p>
                                        <gen-list>
                                             <label>(a)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Holding the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels, recognizing that this would significantly reduce the risks and impacts of climate change;</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(b)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Increasing the ability to adapt to the adverse impacts of climate change and foster climate resilience and low greenhouse gas emissions development, in a manner that does not threaten food production; and</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(c)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Making finance flows consistent with a pathway towards low greenhouse gas emissions and climate-resilient development.</p>
                                             </item>
                                        </gen-list>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.13">This Agreement will be implemented to reflect equity and the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities, in the light of different national circumstances.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 3</heading>
                              <p>As nationally determined contributions to the global response to climate change, all Parties are to undertake and communicate ambitious efforts as defined in Articles 4, 7, 9, 10, 11 and 13 with the view to achieving the purpose of this Agreement as set out in Article 2. The efforts of all Parties will represent a progression over time, while recognizing the need to support developing country Parties for the effective implementation of this Agreement.</p>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 4</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="UNEP.EDIO.22.32">In order to achieve the long-term temperature goal set out in Article 2, Parties aim to reach global peaking of greenhouse gas emissions as soon as possible, recognizing that peaking will take longer for developing country Parties, and to undertake rapid reductions thereafter in accordance with best available science, so as to achieve a balance between anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of greenhouse gases in the second half of this century, on the basis of equity, and in the context of sustainable development and efforts to eradicate poverty.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.33">Each Party shall prepare, communicate and maintain successive nationally determined contributions that it intends to achieve. Parties shall pursue domestic mitigation measures, with the aim of achieving the objectives of such contributions.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>3.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.34">Each Party’s successive nationally determined contribution will represent a progression beyond the Party’s then current nationally determined contribution and reflect its highest possible ambition, reflecting its common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities, in the light of different national circumstances.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>4.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.35">Developed country Parties should continue taking the lead by undertaking economy-wide absolute emission reduction targets. Developing country Parties should continue enhancing their mitigation efforts, and are encouraged to move over time towards economy-wide emission reduction or limitation targets in the light of different national circumstances.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>5.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.36">Support shall be provided to developing country Parties for the implementation of this Article, in accordance with Articles 9, 10 and 11, recognizing that enhanced support for developing country Parties will allow for higher ambition in their actions.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>6.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.37">The least developed countries and small island developing States may prepare and communicate strategies, plans and actions for low greenhouse gas emissions development reflecting their special circumstances.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>7.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Mitigation co-benefits resulting from Parties’ adaptation actions and/or economic diversification plans can contribute to mitigation outcomes under this Article.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>8.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>In communicating their nationally determined contributions, all Parties shall provide the information necessary for clarity, transparency and understanding in accordance with decision 1/CP.21 and any relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>9.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Each Party shall communicate a nationally determined contribution every five years in accordance with decision 1/CP.21 and any relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement and be informed by the outcomes of the global stocktake referred to in Article 14.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>10.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement shall consider common time frames for nationally determined contributions at its first session.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>11.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>A Party may at any time adjust its existing nationally determined contribution with a view to enhancing its level of ambition, in accordance with guidance adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>12.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Nationally determined contributions communicated by Parties shall be recorded in a public registry maintained by the secretariat.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>13.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Parties shall account for their nationally determined contributions. In accounting for anthropogenic emissions and removals corresponding to their nationally determined contributions, Parties shall promote environmental integrity, transparency, accuracy, completeness, comparability and consistency, and ensure the avoidance of double counting, in accordance with guidance adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>14.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>In the context of their nationally determined contributions, when recognizing and implementing mitigation actions with respect to anthropogenic emissions and removals, Parties should take into account, as appropriate, existing methods and guidance under the Convention, in the light of the provisions of paragraph 13 of this Article.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>15.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Parties shall take into consideration in the implementation of this Agreement the concerns of Parties with economies most affected by the impacts of response measures, particularly developing country Parties.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>16.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Parties, including regional economic integration organizations and their member States, that have reached an agreement to act jointly under paragraph 2 of this Article shall notify the secretariat of the terms of that agreement, including the emission level allocated to each Party within the relevant time period, when they communicate their nationally determined contributions. The secretariat shall in turn inform the Parties and signatories to the Convention of the terms of that agreement.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>17.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Each party to such an agreement shall be responsible for its emission level as set out in the agreement referred to in paragraph 16 of this Article in accordance with paragraphs 13 and 14 of this Article and Articles 13 and 15.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>18.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>If Parties acting jointly do so in the framework of, and together with, a regional economic integration organization which is itself a Party to this Agreement, each member State of that regional economic integration organization individually, and together with the regional economic integration organization, shall be responsible for its emission level as set out in the agreement communicated under paragraph 16 of this Article in accordance with paragraphs 13 and 14 of this Article and Articles 13 and 15.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>19.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>All Parties should strive to formulate and communicate long-term low greenhouse gas emission development strategies, mindful of Article 2 taking into account their common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities, in the light of different national circumstances.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 5</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.39">Parties should take action to conserve and enhance, as appropriate, sinks and reservoirs of greenhouse gases as referred to in Article 4, paragraph 1(d), of the Convention, including forests.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.40">Parties are encouraged to take action to implement and support, including through results-based payments, the existing framework as set out in related guidance and decisions already agreed under the Convention for: policy approaches and positive incentives for activities relating to reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, and the role of conservation, sustainable management of forests and enhancement of forest carbon stocks in developing countries; and alternative policy approaches, such as joint mitigation and adaptation approaches for the integral and sustainable management of forests, while reaffirming the importance of incentivizing, as appropriate, non-carbon benefits associated with such approaches.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 6</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Parties recognize that some Parties choose to pursue voluntary cooperation in the implementation of their nationally determined contributions to allow for higher ambition in their mitigation and adaptation actions and to promote sustainable development and environmental integrity.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Parties shall, where engaging on a voluntary basis in cooperative approaches that involve the use of internationally transferred mitigation outcomes towards nationally determined contributions, promote sustainable development and ensure environmental integrity and transparency, including in governance, and shall apply robust accounting to ensure, inter alia, the avoidance of double counting, consistent with guidance adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>3.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The use of internationally transferred mitigation outcomes to achieve nationally determined contributions under this Agreement shall be voluntary and authorized by participating Parties.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>4.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.43">A mechanism to contribute to the mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions and support sustainable development is hereby established under the authority and guidance of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement for use by Parties on a voluntary basis. It shall be supervised by a body designated by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement, and shall aim:</p>
                                        <gen-list>
                                             <label>(a)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>To promote the mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions while fostering sustainable development;</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(b)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>To incentivize and facilitate participation in the mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions by public and private entities authorized by a Party;</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(c)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>To contribute to the reduction of emission levels in the host Party, which will benefit from mitigation activities resulting in emission reductions that can also be used by another Party to fulfil its nationally determined contribution; and</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(d)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>To deliver an overall mitigation in global emissions.</p>
                                             </item>
                                        </gen-list>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>5.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.44">Emission reductions resulting from the mechanism referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article shall not be used to demonstrate achievement of the host Party’s nationally determined contribution if used by another Party to demonstrate achievement of its nationally determined contribution.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>6.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.45">The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement shall ensure that a share of the proceeds from activities under the mechanism referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article is used to cover administrative expenses as well as to assist developing country Parties that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change to meet the costs of adaptation.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>7.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.46">The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement shall adopt rules, modalities and procedures for the mechanism referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article at its first session.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>8.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Parties recognize the importance of integrated, holistic and balanced non-market approaches being available to Parties to assist in the implementation of their nationally determined contributions, in the context of sustainable development and poverty eradication, in a coordinated and effective manner, including through, inter alia, mitigation, adaptation, finance, technology transfer and capacity-building, as appropriate. These approaches shall aim to:</p>
                                        <gen-list>
                                             <label>(a)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Promote mitigation and adaptation ambition;</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(b)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Enhance public and private sector participation in the implementation of nationally determined contributions; and</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(c)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Enable opportunities for coordination across instruments and relevant institutional arrangements.</p>
                                             </item>
                                        </gen-list>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>9.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>A framework for non-market approaches to sustainable development is hereby defined to promote the non-market approaches referred to in paragraph 8 of this Article.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 7</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.48">Parties hereby establish the global goal on adaptation of enhancing adaptive capacity, strengthening resilience and reducing vulnerability to climate change, with a view to contributing to sustainable development and ensuring an adequate adaptation response in the context of the temperature goal referred to in Article 2.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.49">Parties recognize that adaptation is a global challenge faced by all with local, subnational, national, regional and international dimensions, and that it is a key component of and makes a contribution to the long-term global response to climate change to protect people, livelihoods and ecosystems, taking into account the urgent and immediate needs of those developing country Parties that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>3.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.50">The adaptation efforts of developing country Parties shall be recognized, in accordance with the modalities to be adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement at its first session.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>4.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.51">Parties recognize that the current need for adaptation is significant and that greater levels of mitigation can reduce the need for additional adaptation efforts, and that greater adaptation needs can involve greater adaptation costs.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>5.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Parties acknowledge that adaptation action should follow a country-driven, gender-responsive, participatory and fully transparent approach, taking into consideration vulnerable groups, communities and ecosystems, and should be based on and guided by the best available science and, as appropriate, traditional knowledge, knowledge of indigenous peoples and local knowledge systems, with a view to integrating adaptation into relevant socioeconomic and environmental policies and actions, where appropriate.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>6.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Parties recognize the importance of support for and international cooperation on adaptation efforts and the importance of taking into account the needs of developing country Parties, especially those that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>7.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Parties should strengthen their cooperation on enhancing action on adaptation, taking into account the Cancun Adaptation Framework, including with regard to:</p>
                                        <gen-list>
                                             <label>(a)</label>
                                             <item>Sharing information, good practices, experiences and lessons learned, including, as appropriate, as these relate to science, planning, policies and implementation in relation to adaptation actions;</item>
                                             <label>(b)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Strengthening institutional arrangements, including those under the Convention that serve this Agreement, to support the synthesis of relevant information and knowledge, and the provision of technical support and guidance to Parties;</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(c)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Strengthening scientific knowledge on climate, including research, systematic observation of the climate system and early warning systems, in a manner that informs climate services and supports decision-making;</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(d)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Assisting developing country Parties in identifying effective adaptation practices, adaptation needs, priorities, support provided and received for adaptation actions and efforts, and challenges and gaps, in a manner consistent with encouraging good practices; and</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(e)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Improving the effectiveness and durability of adaptation actions.</p>
                                             </item>
                                        </gen-list>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>8.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>United Nations specialized organizations and agencies are encouraged to support the efforts of Parties to implement the actions referred to in paragraph 7 of this Article, taking into account the provisions of paragraph 5 of this Article.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>9.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Each Party shall, as appropriate, engage in adaptation planning processes and the implementation of actions, including the development or enhancement of relevant plans, policies and/or contributions, which may include:</p>
                                        <gen-list>
                                             <label>(a)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>The implementation of adaptation actions, undertakings and/or efforts;</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(b)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>The process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans;</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(c)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>The assessment of climate change impacts and vulnerability, with a view to formulating nationally determined prioritized actions, taking into account vulnerable people, places and ecosystems;</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(d)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Monitoring and evaluating and learning from adaptation plans, policies, programmes and actions; and</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(e)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Building the resilience of socioeconomic and ecological systems, including through economic diversification and sustainable management of natural resources.</p>
                                             </item>
                                        </gen-list>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>10.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Each Party should, as appropriate, submit and update periodically an adaptation communication, which may include its priorities, implementation and support needs, plans and actions, without creating any additional burden for developing country Parties.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>11.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The adaptation communication referred to in paragraph 10 of this Article shall be, as appropriate, submitted and updated periodically, as a component of or in conjunction with other communications or documents, including a national adaptation plan, a nationally determined contribution as referred to in Article 4, paragraph 2, and/or a national communication.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>12.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The adaptation communications referred to in paragraph 10 of this Article shall be recorded in a public registry maintained by the secretariat.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>13.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Continuous and enhanced international support shall be provided to developing country Parties for the implementation of paragraphs 7, 9, 10 and 11 of this Article, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 9, 10 and 11.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>14.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The global stocktake referred to in Article 14 shall, inter alia:</p>
                                        <gen-list>
                                             <label>(a)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Recognize adaptation efforts of developing country Parties;</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(b)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Enhance the implementation of adaptation action taking into account the adaptation communication referred to in paragraph 10 of this Article;</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(c)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Review the adequacy and effectiveness of adaptation and support provided for adaptation; and</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(d)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Review the overall progress made in achieving the global goal on adaptation referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article.</p>
                                             </item>
                                        </gen-list>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 8</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.53">Parties recognize the importance of averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change, including extreme weather events and slow onset events, and the role of sustainable development in reducing the risk of loss and damage.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.54">The Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts shall be subject to the authority and guidance of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement and may be enhanced and strengthened, as determined by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>3.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.55">Parties should enhance understanding, action and support, including through the Warsaw International Mechanism, as appropriate, on a cooperative and facilitative basis with respect to loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>4.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.56">Accordingly, areas of cooperation and facilitation to enhance understanding, action and support may include:</p>
                                        <gen-list>
                                             <label>(a)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Early warning systems;</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(b)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Emergency preparedness;</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(c)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Slow onset events;</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(d)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Events that may involve irreversible and permanent loss and damage;</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(e)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Comprehensive risk assessment and management;</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(f)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Risk insurance facilities, climate risk pooling and other insurance solutions;</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(g)</label>
                                             <item>Non-economic losses; and</item>
                                             <label>(h)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Resilience of communities, livelihoods and ecosystems.</p>
                                             </item>
                                        </gen-list>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>5.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The Warsaw International Mechanism shall collaborate with existing bodies and expert groups under the Agreement, as well as relevant organizations and expert bodies outside the Agreement.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 9</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.58">Developed country Parties shall provide financial resources to assist developing country Parties with respect to both mitigation and adaptation in continuation of their existing obligations under the Convention.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.59">Other Parties are encouraged to provide or continue to provide such support voluntarily.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>3.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>As part of a global effort, developed country Parties should continue to take the lead in mobilizing climate finance from a wide variety of sources, instruments and channels, noting the significant role of public funds, through a variety of actions, including supporting country-driven strategies, and taking into account the needs and priorities of developing country Parties. Such mobilization of climate finance should represent a progression beyond previous efforts.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>4.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The provision of scaled-up financial resources should aim to achieve a balance between adaptation and mitigation, taking into account country-driven strategies, and the priorities and needs of developing country Parties, especially those that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change and have significant capacity constraints, such as the least developed countries and small island developing States, considering the need for public and grant-based resources for adaptation.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>5.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Developed country Parties shall biennially communicate indicative quantitative and qualitative information related to paragraphs 1 and 3 of this Article, as applicable, including, as available, projected levels of public financial resources to be provided to developing country Parties. Other Parties providing resources are encouraged to communicate biennially such information on a voluntary basis.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>6.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The global stocktake referred to in Article 14 shall take into account the relevant information provided by developed country Parties and/or Agreement bodies on efforts related to climate finance.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>7.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Developed country Parties shall provide transparent and consistent information on support for developing country Parties provided and mobilized through public interventions biennially in accordance with the modalities, procedures and guidelines to be adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement, at its first session, as stipulated in Article 13, paragraph 13. Other Parties are encouraged to do so.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>8.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The Financial Mechanism of the Convention, including its operating entities, shall serve as the financial mechanism of this Agreement.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>9.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The institutions serving this Agreement, including the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism of the Convention, shall aim to ensure efficient access to financial resources through simplified approval procedures and enhanced readiness support for developing country Parties, in particular for the least developed countries and small island developing States, in the context of their national climate strategies and plans.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 10</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Parties share a long-term vision on the importance of fully realizing technology development and transfer in order to improve resilience to climate change and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Parties, noting the importance of technology for the implementation of mitigation and adaptation actions under this Agreement and recognizing existing technology deployment and dissemination efforts, shall strengthen cooperative action on technology development and transfer.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>3.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The Technology Mechanism established under the Convention shall serve this Agreement.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>4.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>A technology framework is hereby established to provide overarching guidance to the work of the Technology Mechanism in promoting and facilitating enhanced action on technology development and transfer in order to support the implementation of this Agreement, in pursuit of the long-term vision referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>5.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Accelerating, encouraging and enabling innovation is critical for an effective, long-term global response to climate change and promoting economic growth and sustainable development. Such effort shall be, as appropriate, supported, including by the Technology Mechanism and, through financial means, by the Financial Mechanism of the Convention, for collaborative approaches to research and development, and facilitating access to technology, in particular for early stages of the technology cycle, to developing country Parties.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>6.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Support, including financial support, shall be provided to developing country Parties for the implementation of this Article, including for strengthening cooperative action on technology development and transfer at different stages of the technology cycle, with a view to achieving a balance between support for mitigation and adaptation. The global stocktake referred to in Article 14 shall take into account available information on efforts related to support on technology development and transfer for developing country Parties.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 11</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.63">Capacity-building under this Agreement should enhance the capacity and ability of developing country Parties, in particular countries with the least capacity, such as the least developed countries, and those that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change, such as small island developing States, to take effective climate change action, including, inter alia, to implement adaptation and mitigation actions, and should facilitate technology development, dissemination and deployment, access to climate finance, relevant aspects of education, training and public awareness, and the transparent, timely and accurate communication of information.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.64">Capacity-building should be country-driven, based on and responsive to national needs, and foster country ownership of Parties, in particular, for developing country Parties, including at the national, subnational and local levels. Capacity-building should be guided by lessons learned, including those from capacity-building activities under the Convention, and should be an effective, iterative process that is participatory, cross-cutting and gender-responsive.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>3.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>All Parties should cooperate to enhance the capacity of developing country Parties to implement this Agreement. Developed country Parties should enhance support for capacity-building actions in developing country Parties.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>4.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>All Parties enhancing the capacity of developing country Parties to implement this Agreement, including through regional, bilateral and multilateral approaches, shall regularly communicate on these actions or measures on capacity-building. Developing country Parties should regularly communicate progress made on implementing capacity-building plans, policies, actions or measures to implement this Agreement.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>5.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Capacity-building activities shall be enhanced through appropriate institutional arrangements to support the implementation of this Agreement, including the appropriate institutional arrangements established under the Convention that serve this Agreement. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement shall, at its first session, consider and adopt a decision on the initial institutional arrangements for capacity-building.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 12</heading>
                              <p>Parties shall cooperate in taking measures, as appropriate, to enhance climate change education, training, public awareness, public participation and public access to information, recognizing the importance of these steps with respect to enhancing actions under this Agreement.</p>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 13</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="UNEP.EDIO.2.77">In order to build mutual trust and confidence and to promote effective implementation, an enhanced transparency framework for action and support, with built-in flexibility which takes into account Parties’ different capacities and builds upon collective experience is hereby established.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="UNEP.EDIO.2.78">The transparency framework shall provide flexibility in the implementation of the provisions of this Article to those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities. The modalities, procedures and guidelines referred to in paragraph 13 of this Article shall reflect such flexibility.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>3.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The transparency framework shall build on and enhance the transparency arrangements under the Convention, recognizing the special circumstances of the least developed countries and small island developing States, and be implemented in a facilitative, non-intrusive, non-punitive manner, respectful of national sovereignty, and avoid placing undue burden on Parties.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>4.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The transparency arrangements under the Convention, including national communications, biennial reports and biennial update reports, international assessment and review and international consultation and analysis, shall form part of the experience drawn upon for the development of the modalities, procedures and guidelines under paragraph 13 of this Article.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>5.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The purpose of the framework for transparency of action is to provide a clear understanding of climate change action in the light of the objective of the Convention as set out in its Article 2, including clarity and tracking of progress towards achieving Parties’ individual nationally determined contributions under Article 4, and Parties’ adaptation actions under Article 7, including good practices, priorities, needs and gaps, to inform the global stocktake under Article 14.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>6.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The purpose of the framework for transparency of support is to provide clarity on support provided and received by relevant individual Parties in the context of climate change actions under Articles 4, 7, 9, 10 and 11, and, to the extent possible, to provide a full overview of aggregate financial support provided, to inform the global stocktake under Article 14.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>7.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Each Party shall regularly provide the following information:</p>
                                        <gen-list>
                                             <label>(a)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>A national inventory report of anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of greenhouse gases, prepared using good practice methodologies accepted by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and agreed upon by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement; and</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(b)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Information necessary to track progress made in implementing and achieving its nationally determined contribution under Article 4.</p>
                                             </item>
                                        </gen-list>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>8.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Each Party should also provide information related to climate change impacts and adaptation under Article 7, as appropriate.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>9.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Developed country Parties shall, and other Parties that provide support should, provide information on financial, technology transfer and capacity-building support provided to developing country Parties under Articles 9, 10 and 11.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>10.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Developing country Parties should provide information on financial, technology transfer and capacity-building support needed and received under Articles 9, 10 and 11.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>11.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Information submitted by each Party under paragraphs 7 and 9 of this Article shall undergo a technical expert review, in accordance with decision 1/CP.21. For those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities, the review process shall include assistance in identifying capacity-building needs. In addition, each Party shall participate in a facilitative, multilateral consideration of progress with respect to efforts under Article 9, and its respective implementation and achievement of its nationally determined contribution.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>12.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The technical expert review under this paragraph shall consist of a consideration of the Party’s support provided, as relevant, and its implementation and achievement of its nationally determined contribution. The review shall also identify areas of improvement for the Party, and include a review of the consistency of the information with the modalities, procedures and guidelines referred to in paragraph 13 of this Article, taking into account the flexibility accorded to the Party under paragraph 2 of this Article. The review shall pay particular attention to the respective national capabilities and circumstances of developing country Parties.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>13.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement shall, at its first session, building on experience from the arrangements related to transparency under the Convention, and elaborating on the provisions in this Article, adopt common modalities, procedures and guidelines, as appropriate, for the transparency of action and support.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>14.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Support shall be provided to developing countries for the implementation of this Article.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>15.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Support shall also be provided for the building of transparency-related capacity of developing country Parties on a continuous basis.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 14</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.80">The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement shall periodically take stock of the implementation of this Agreement to assess the collective progress towards achieving the purpose of this Agreement and its long-term goals (referred to as the “global stocktake”). It shall do so in a comprehensive and facilitative manner, considering mitigation, adaptation and the means of implementation and support, and in the light of equity and the best available science.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.81">The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement shall undertake its first global stocktake in 2023 and every five years thereafter unless otherwise decided by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>3.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The outcome of the global stocktake shall inform Parties in updating and enhancing, in a nationally determined manner, their actions and support in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, as well as in enhancing international cooperation for climate action.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 15</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.2.832">A mechanism to facilitate implementation of and promote compliance with the provisions of this Agreement is hereby established.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.84">The mechanism referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall consist of a committee that shall be expert-based and facilitative in nature and function in a manner that is transparent, non-adversarial and non-punitive. The committee shall pay particular attention to the respective national capabilities and circumstances of Parties.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>3.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The committee shall operate under the modalities and procedures adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement at its first session and report annually to the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 16</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The Conference of the Parties, the supreme body of the Convention, shall serve as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Parties to the Convention that are not Parties to this Agreement may participate as observers in the proceedings of any session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement. When the Conference of the Parties serves as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement, decisions under this Agreement shall be taken only by those that are Parties to this Agreement.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>3.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>When the Conference of the Parties serves as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement, any member of the Bureau of the Conference of the Parties representing a Party to the Convention but, at that time, not a Party to this Agreement, shall be replaced by an additional member to be elected by and from amongst the Parties to this Agreement.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>4.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement shall keep under regular review the implementation of this Agreement and shall make, within its mandate, the decisions necessary to promote its effective implementation. It shall perform the functions assigned to it by this Agreement and shall:</p>
                                        <gen-list>
                                             <label>(a)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Establish such subsidiary bodies as deemed necessary for the implementation of this Agreement; and</p>
                                             </item>
                                             <label>(b)</label>
                                             <item>
                                                  <p>Exercise such other functions as may be required for the implementation of this Agreement.</p>
                                             </item>
                                        </gen-list>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>5.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>
                  The rules of procedure of the Conference of the Parties and the financial procedures applied under the Convention shall be applied 
                  <i>mutatis mutandis</i>
                   under this Agreement, except as may be otherwise decided by consensus by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement.
                </p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>6.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The first session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement shall be convened by the secretariat in conjunction with the first session of the Conference of the Parties that is scheduled after the date of entry into force of this Agreement. Subsequent ordinary sessions of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement shall be held in conjunction with ordinary sessions of the Conference of the Parties, unless otherwise decided by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>7.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Extraordinary sessions of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement shall be held at such other times as may be deemed necessary by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement or at the written request of any Party, provided that, within six months of the request being communicated to the Parties by the secretariat, it is supported by at least one third of the Parties.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>8.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The United Nations and its specialized agencies and the International Atomic Energy Agency, as well as any State member thereof or observers thereto not party to the Convention, may be represented at sessions of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement as observers. Any body or agency, whether national or international, governmental or non-governmental, which is qualified in matters covered by this Agreement and which has informed the secretariat of its wish to be represented at a session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement as an observer, may be so admitted unless at least one third of the Parties present object. The admission and participation of observers shall be subject to the rules of procedure referred to in paragraph 5 of this Article.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 17</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The secretariat established by Article 8 of the Convention shall serve as the secretariat of this Agreement.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>
                  Article 8, paragraph 2, of the Convention on the functions of the secretariat, and Article 8, paragraph 3, of the Convention, on the arrangements made for the functioning of the secretariat, shall apply 
                  <i>mutatis mutandis</i>
                   to this Agreement. The secretariat shall, in addition, exercise the functions assigned to it under this Agreement and by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement.
                </p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 18</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>
                  The Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice and the Subsidiary Body for Implementation established by Articles 9 and 10 of the Convention shall serve, respectively, as the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice and the Subsidiary Body for Implementation of this Agreement. The provisions of the Convention relating to the functioning of these two bodies shall apply 
                  <i>mutatis mutandis</i>
                   to this Agreement. Sessions of the meetings of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice and the Subsidiary Body for Implementation of this Agreement shall be held in conjunction with the meetings of, respectively, the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice and the Subsidiary Body for Implementation of the Convention.
                </p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Parties to the Convention that are not Parties to this Agreement may participate as observers in the proceedings of any session of the subsidiary bodies. When the subsidiary bodies serve as the subsidiary bodies of this Agreement, decisions under this Agreement shall be taken only by those that are Parties to this Agreement.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>3.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>When the subsidiary bodies established by Articles 9 and 10 of the Convention exercise their functions with regard to matters concerning this Agreement, any member of the bureaux of those subsidiary bodies representing a Party to the Convention but, at that time, not a Party to this Agreement, shall be replaced by an additional member to be elected by and from amongst the Parties to this Agreement.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 19</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.92">Subsidiary bodies or other institutional arrangements established by or under the Convention, other than those referred to in this Agreement, shall serve this Agreement upon a decision of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement shall specify the functions to be exercised by such subsidiary bodies or arrangements.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement may provide further guidance to such subsidiary bodies and institutional arrangements.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 20</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>This Agreement shall be open for signature and subject to ratification, acceptance or approval by States and regional economic integration organizations that are Parties to the Convention. It shall be open for signature at the United Nations Headquarters in New York from 22 April 2016 to 21 April 2017. Thereafter, this Agreement shall be open for accession from the day following the date on which it is closed for signature. Instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession shall be deposited with the Depositary.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Any regional economic integration organization that becomes a Party to this Agreement without any of its member States being a Party shall be bound by all the obligations under this Agreement. In the case of regional economic integration organizations with one or more member States that are Parties to this Agreement, the organization and its member States shall decide on their respective responsibilities for the performance of their obligations under this Agreement. In such cases, the organization and the member States shall not be entitled to exercise rights under this Agreement concurrently.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>3.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>In their instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, regional economic integration organizations shall declare the extent of their competence with respect to the matters governed by this Agreement. These organizations shall also inform the Depositary, who shall in turn inform the Parties, of any substantial modification in the extent of their competence.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 21</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>This Agreement shall enter into force on the thirtieth day after the date on which at least 55 Parties to the Convention accounting in total for at least an estimated 55 per cent of the total global greenhouse gas emissions have deposited their instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Solely for the limited purpose of paragraph 1 of this Article, “total global greenhouse gas emissions” means the most up-to-date amount communicated on or before the date of adoption of this Agreement by the Parties to the Convention.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>3.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>For each State or regional economic integration organization that ratifies, accepts or approves this Agreement or accedes thereto after the conditions set out in paragraph 1 of this Article for entry into force have been fulfilled, this Agreement shall enter into force on the thirtieth day after the date of deposit by such State or regional economic integration organization of its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>4.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>For the purposes of paragraph 1 of this Article, any instrument deposited by a regional economic integration organization shall not be counted as additional to those deposited by its member States.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 22</heading>
                              <p id="WMO.EDIO.22.98">
              The provisions of Article 15 of the Convention on the adoption of amendments to the Convention shall apply 
              <i>mutatis mutandis</i>
               to this Agreement.
            </p>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 23</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>
                  The provisions of Article 16 of the Convention on the adoption and amendment of annexes to the Convention shall apply 
                  <i>mutatis mutandis</i>
                   to this Agreement.
                </p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Annexes to this Agreement shall form an integral part thereof and, unless otherwise expressly provided for, a reference to this Agreement constitutes at the same time a reference to any annexes thereto. Such annexes shall be restricted to lists, forms and any other material of a descriptive nature that is of a scientific, technical, procedural or administrative character.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 24</heading>
                              <p>
              The provisions of Article 14 of the Convention on settlement of disputes shall apply 
              <i>mutatis mutandis</i>
               to this Agreement.
            </p>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 25</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Each Party shall have one vote, except as provided for in paragraph 2 of this Article.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Regional economic integration organizations, in matters within their competence, shall exercise their right to vote with a number of votes equal to the number of their member States that are Parties to this Agreement. Such an organization shall not exercise its right to vote if any of its member States exercises its right, and vice versa.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 26</heading>
                              <p>The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall be the Depositary of this Agreement.</p>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 27</heading>
                              <p>No reservations may be made to this Agreement.</p>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 28</heading>
                              <gen-list>
                                   <label>1.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>At any time after three years from the date on which this Agreement has entered into force for a Party, that Party may withdraw from this Agreement by giving written notification to the Depositary.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>2.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Any such withdrawal shall take effect upon expiry of one year from the date of receipt by the Depositary of the notification of withdrawal, or on such later date as may be specified in the notification of withdrawal.</p>
                                   </item>
                                   <label>3.</label>
                                   <item>
                                        <p>Any Party that withdraws from the Convention shall be considered as also having withdrawn from this Agreement.</p>
                                   </item>
                              </gen-list>
                         </legal-block>
                         <legal-block>
                              <heading>Article 29</heading>
                              <p>The original of this Agreement, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.</p>
                         </legal-block>
                    </legal-block>
               </legal-block>
          </legal-block>
     </int-org-section>
     <!--8.iv.24: 22,078 words, with treaties-->
</int-org-entry>