<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="UNDOCO.IO" id-root="undoco.io" iso="undoco.io" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee eerca ass sacac mena fea sasia"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>United Nations Development Coordination Office</org-entry-name>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">UNITED NATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee eerca sasia fea ass sacac mena">REGIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb">United Nations (Other Bodies)</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="edio">United Nations Development Coordination Office</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">The United Nations in Central and South-Eastern Europe</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="sacac">The United Nations in South America, Central America and the Caribbean</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ass">The United Nations in Africa South of the Sahara</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="mena">The United Nations in the Middle East and North Africa</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="sasia">The United Nations in South Asia</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="fea">The United Nations in the Far East and Australasia</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="eerca">The United Nations in Eastern Europe, Russia and Central Asia</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>405 East 42nd St, 25th Floor, New York, NY 10017, USA</verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <telephone alsofax="N"> (212) 906-5500</telephone>
               <email>dcocommunications@un.org</email>
               <internet>un-dco.org</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p id="IO-UN.DCO.3">The Office was established in 1997, as the UN Development Operations Coordination Office (UN DOCO), along with a UN Development Group to enhance the UN’s co-ordinated delivery of development assistance. In 2018, as part of extensive reforms to the UN development system, UN DOCO became a subsidiary office of the UN Secretariat, and was renamed the UN Development Coordination Office (DCO), assuming an enhanced role within the system. In particular, the DCO assumed managerial and supervisory functions in respect of the UN Resident Coordinator system.</p>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="UN.IO.DOCO.2" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <heading-note>April 2024</heading-note>
          <p>The DCO serves as the secretariat of the UN Sustainable Development Group, at the regional and global levels. At the regional level five DCO Regional Directors provide region-specific support to Resident Coordinators from offices based in&#160;Addis Ababa, Ethiopia; Amman, Jordan; Bangkok, Thailand; Panama City, Panama; and İstanbul, Türkiye.</p>
          <dir-list>
               <dir-entry id="UNDOCO.IO.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                    <dir-entry-name>Assistant Secretary-General</dir-entry-name>
                    <person-group>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Oscar</forename>
                                   <surname>Fernández-Taranco</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Argentina</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </person-group>
               </dir-entry>
               <!--Deputy Dir of DCO: Rosemary Kalapurakal -India 7.v.22-->
          </dir-list>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="UNDP.IO.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>UN Development System</heading>
          <p>The UN Sustainable Development Group (UNSDG), established as the UN Development Group in 2007 and renamed in 2018, provides strategic direction for the UN development system. Chaired by the UN’s Deputy Secretary-General, and consisting of the executive heads of 37 UN entities, the UNSDG serves as a high-level forum for inter-agency policy formation.</p>
          <p usage="ewyb edio">
       The Administrator of the UN Development Programme (UNDP) acts as the Vice-Chair of the UNSDG, and chairs a UNSDG Core Group, comprising UNDP, the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN, the International Labour Organization, the International Organization for Migration, the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, the UN Children’s Fund, the UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the UN Environment Programme, the UN Population Fund, UN Women, the World Food Programme, the World Health Organization, as well as the rotating Chair of the UN Regional Economic Commissions. The UNSDG also promotes the implementation of coherent policy at regional and country level, and supports, guides and tracks the local co-ordination of UN development operations. Its regional teams, 
      <i>inter alia,</i>
       provide strategic guidance and support to the RC system and UN Country Teams. In full consultation with national governments, the UN formulates a specific framework for development operations at country level, known as the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework.
    </p>
          <p>The DCO reports directly to the UNSDG’s Chair, and services and facilitates the Group’s work, providing technical and advisory support to its members. The Office’s critical functions for the UNSDG and the RC system are defined as: providing focused policy co-ordination and technical support to the Group’s global work; supporting the UNSDG regional teams, the RCs and UN Country Teams; and gathering evidence and data on activities in programme countries to inform the UNSDG’s analytical work and decision making.</p>
          <p>From 2020, with a view to streamlining co-ordination, five Regional Collaborative Platforms (RCPs) were initiated, with participation by all development-focused UN agencies working within each region. Each RCP is chaired by the UN Deputy Secretary-General. The heads of the relevant UNDP Regional Bureau and UN Regional Economic Commission act as Vice-Chairs.</p>
          <!--reform process aims to enhance collaboration between and within the UN-s three pillars of development, peace and security, and human rights-->
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UNDP.001" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development</heading>
          <p>In September 2015 UN heads of state and government, gathered in New York, USA, at a high-level plenary meeting of the UN General Assembly, adopted an outcome document known as the `2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development’. This had been drafted during an intensive, inclusive three-year collaborative process aimed at designing a new forward-looking global framework for the pursuit of sustainable development and the eradication of extreme poverty. It had five thematic pillars: people, planet, prosperity, peace and partnership, and incorporated the following 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)—reinforced by 169 specific targets—which were to be pursued during the period 2016-30:</p>
          <gen-list>
               <item>1. End poverty in all its forms everywhere</item>
               <item>2. End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture</item>
               <item>3. Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages</item>
               <item>4. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all</item>
               <item>5. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls</item>
               <item>6. Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all</item>
               <item>7. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all</item>
               <item>8. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all </item>
               <item>9. Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation</item>
               <item>10. Reduce inequality within and among countries</item>
               <item>11. Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable</item>
               <item>12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns</item>
               <item>13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts</item>
               <item>14. Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development</item>
               <item>15. Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss</item>
               <item>16. Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels</item>
               <item>17. Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development</item>
          </gen-list>
          <p>
      The regular UN High-Level Political Forum (HLPF) on Sustainable Development, convened annually in July under the auspices of ECOSOC, is the focus for the system-wide follow up and review of the 2030 Agenda and the SDGs. As the principal UN intergovernmental platform on sustainable development, the Forum adopts negotiated political declarations. An independently produced annual 
      <publ-name>Sustainable Development Report, </publ-name>
       incorporating an SDG Index and Dashboards, is presented to the HLPF. The report is compiled with data from national statistical offices, from international organizations, and from non-official sources, including research centres. A voluntary national review (VNR) mechanism is used to report on countries’ progress in implementing the 2030 Agenda.
    </p>
          <p>
      In February 2023 the UN Secretary-General introduced an SDG Stimulus initiative, proposing three deliverable actions that were aimed at advancing the implementation of the SDGs: (i) Tackle the high cost of national debt (including by converting short-term high interest borrowing into long-term debt at lower interest rates); (ii) Massively scale up affordable long-term financing for development, especially through public development banks, and by aligning all financing flows with the SDGs; and (iii) Expand contingency financing to countries in need. The Secretary-General also urged that member states each make National and Global Commitments to SDG Transformation. In April he released a special report titled 
      <publ-name>Progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals: towards a rescue plan for people and planet</publ-name>
      .
    </p>
          <p>
      The second quadrennial SDG Summit—an HLPF held at the level of heads of state and government—was organized in mid-September 2023, under the auspices of the General Assembly (the first having been held in September 2019). The focus of its agenda was `rescuing’ the SDGs, against the background of a confluence of globally cascading and interlinked crises—including challenges posed by climate change, conflicts and the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy, poverty levels, food and nutrition, education, health, the environment, social cohesion, and peace and security. (At that time only 15% of measurable SDG targets were reported to be on track, while 30% had either stalled or regressed since 2015.) The 2023 edition of a quadrennial 
      <publ-name>Global Sustainable Development Report</publ-name>
      , prepared by an independent group of scientists, and subtitled `Times of Crisis, Times of Change: Science for Accelerating Transformations to Sustainable Development’, was released prior to the SDG Summit to inform its discussions and decision making. It advocated for a science-based approach to advancing sustainable development. Six themed Leaders’ Dialogues were organized during the summit, to promote pledges for National and Global Commitments to SDG Transformation (these commitments were to be formally registered on an SDG Summit Acceleration and Accountability Platform). The leaders participating in the summit adopted a political declaration that confirmed their collective commitment to pursuing the 2030 Agenda, welcomed and determined to advance the SDG Stimulus initiative, and stated support for reform of the international financial architecture, including of its business models and financing capacities.
    </p>
          <p>The 2024 regular HLPF, to be held in mid-July, was to focus on progress achieved in the implementation of SDGs 1 (on ending poverty), 2 (on ending hunger), 13 (combating climate change), 16 (promoting peaceful and inclusive societies), and 17 (on partnerships). VNRs were to be presented during the Forum. A Summit of the Future was to be organized in September to maintain momentum in the pursuit of the Goals.</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="UN.IO.DOCO.3" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>UN Resident Coordinators</heading>
          <p>Resident Coordinators have an independent, sustainable development-focused co-ordination function, and act as the designated representative of the UN Secretary-General in a country, with respect to its development operations. They lead the UN Country Team to support co-ordinated, inter-agency activities, as well as other national strategies and development priorities. RCs report both to the UN Secretary-General (through the Chair of the UNSDG) and to the host government on the implementation of a country’s UN Sustainable Development Coordination Framework. In 2024 UN Country Teams—including UN agencies, funds and specialized programmes—were based in 130 countries, covering 162 states and territories in which UN development activities were being undertaken.</p>
          <int-org-section id="IO-CASEE.136" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="casee">
               <heading>Offices of UN Resident Coordinators in Central and South-Eastern Europe</heading>
               <!--15.05.2023 rolegroups checked-->
               <!--27.01.2021 updated as of 01.01.2021 -->
               <org-list>
                    <org-entry id="IO-CASEE.137" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Albania</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Rruga `Skënderbej’, Qendra Gurten, Kat. II, Tirana</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(4) 2250205</telephone>
                              <fax>(4) 2250286</fax>
                              <email>registry.al@un.org</email>
                              <internet>albania.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Fiona</forename>
                                        <surname>McCluney</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-CASEE.138" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Bosnia and Herzegovina</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>71000 Sarajevo, Zmaja od Bosne b.b.</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(33) 293400</telephone>
                              <email>rco.ba@un.org</email>
                              <internet>bosniaherzegovina.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Ingrid</forename>
                                        <surname>Macdonald</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-CASEE.141" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Kosovo</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>10000 Pristina, 58 Zagrebi St</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(38) 249066</telephone>
                              <email>undco.ks@un.org</email>
                              <internet>kosovoteam.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Development Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Arnhild</forename>
                                        <surname>Spence</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-CASEE.UNDP.221" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Montenegro</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>UN Eco House, Stanka Dragojevica bb, 81000 Podgorica</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(20) 447458</telephone>
                              <email>rcs-unmontenegro@un.org</email>
                              <internet>montenegro.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Peter</forename>
                                        <surname>Lundberg</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-CASEE.144" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <!--rc 19.05.2021 cannot confirm tel and fax-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>North Macedonia</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>1000 Skopje, 23 јordan Hadzi Konstantinov-Dzinot</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 3249500</telephone>
                              <fax>(2) 3249505</fax>
                              <email>rc-northmacedonia@un.org</email>
                              <internet>northmacedonia.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Rossana</forename>
                                        <surname>Dudziak</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-CASEE.148" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Serbia</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>11070 Belgrade, Bulevar Zorana Đinđića 64</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="Y">(11) 4155-300</telephone>
                              <email>rcs-unorc.serbia@un.org</email>
                              <internet>serbia.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Françoise</forename>
                                        <surname>Jacob</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
               </org-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-SACAC.106" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="sacac">
               <heading>Offices of UN Resident Coordinators in South America, Central America and the Caribbean</heading>
               <org-list>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SACAC.107" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Argentina</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Paraguay 733, Buenos Aires</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(11) 3985 6600</telephone>
                              <email>onuargentina@unic.org</email>
                              <internet>argentina.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Claudia</forename>
                                        <surname>Mojica</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SACAC.108" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Barbados and the Eastern Caribbean</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>UN House, Marine Gdns, Christ Church</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">467-6102</telephone>
                              <email>rco.bb@un.org</email>
                              <internet>easterncaribbean.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">also covers Eastern Caribbean countries (Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, British Virgin Islands, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines)</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Didier</forename>
                                        <surname>Trebucq</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SACAC.109" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Bolivia</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Calle 14 Eq. Avda Sánchez Bustamante, Edif. Metrobol II, Calacoto, Casilla 9072, La Paz, Bolivia</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 279-5544</telephone>
                              <fax>(2) 279-5820</fax>
                              <email>unic.lapaz@unic.org</email>
                              <internet>bolivia.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator a.i.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Rafael</forename>
                                        <surname>Ramirez Mesec</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SACAC.110" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Brazil</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Casa ONU, Quadra 802, Conjunto C, Lot 17, Setor de Embaixadas Norte, 70800-400 Brasilia</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(61) 3038-9300</telephone>
                              <email>faleconosco@onu.org.br</email>
                              <internet>brasil.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Silvia</forename>
                                        <surname>Rucks del Bo</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SACAC.111" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Chile</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Avda Dag Hammarskjöld, 3241 Vitacura, Santiago</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 654-1000</telephone>
                              <email>onuchile@un.org</email>
                              <internet>chile.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Maria José</forename>
                                        <surname>Torres Macho</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SACAC.112" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <!--rc 20.05.2021 cannot confirm contact details-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Colombia</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>
                Calle 84
                <sc>a</sc>
                , No. 10-50/62, Bogotá
              </verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="Y">(1) 488-9000</telephone>
                              <email>unic.bogota@unic.org</email>
                              <internet>colombia.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Mireia</forename>
                                        <surname>Villar Forner</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SACAC.113" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Costa Rica</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Apdo Postal 4540-1000, San José</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">22961544</telephone>
                              <fax>22961545</fax>
                              <email>unrcocostarica@un.org</email>
                              <internet>costarica.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Allegra Maria</forename>
                                        <surname>del Pilar Baiocchi</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SACAC.114" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Cuba</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Calle 18, No. 110 (entre 1ra y 3ra), Miramar, Havana</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(7) 204-1513</telephone>
                              <fax>(7) 204-1516</fax>
                              <email>consuelo.vidal@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>cuba.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Francisco</forename>
                                        <surname>Pichon</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SACAC.115" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Dominican Republic</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Casa de las Naciones Unidas, Avda Anacaona 9, Mirador Sur, Santo Domingo</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">537-0909</telephone>
                              <email>nationsunidas.do@un.org</email>
                              <internet>dominicanrepublic.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Mauricio</forename>
                                        <surname>Ramirez Villegas</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SACAC.116" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <!--currently web of country team is down need to check again-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Ecuador</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Centro Corporativo EKOPARK, Via Nayón y Avda Simón Bolívar, Torre 4, 2°, Quito</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 382-4240</telephone>
                              <email>rcs-ecuador@un.org</email>
                              <internet>ecuador.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Lena</forename>
                                        <surname>Savelli</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SACAC.25071653" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>El Salvador</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>
                Edif. de Naciones Unidas, Blv. Orden Malta Sur 2
                <sc>b</sc>
                , Santa Elena, Antiguo Cuscatlán, San Salvador
              </verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">2209-3509</telephone>
                              <email>carlos.leon@un.org</email>
                              <internet>elsalvador.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">also covers Belize</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Raúl</forename>
                                        <surname>Salazar</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SACAC.118" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <!--VK 26.07.2019 unable to confirm the name-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Guatemala</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>
                5
                <sc>a</sc>
                 Avda 5-55, Zona 14, Edif. Europlaza, Torre IV, Nivel 10, Guatemala City
              </verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 3843100</telephone>
                              <email>onu.gt@un.org</email>
                              <internet>guatemala.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>José Miguel</forename>
                                        <surname>Barreto</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SACAC.119" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Guyana</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>107-108 Duke St, Kingston, Georgetown</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 64040</telephone>
                              <email>rcs-unguyana@un.org</email>
                              <internet>guyana.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Yeşim</forename>
                                        <surname>Oruç</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SACAC.120" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Haiti</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>15 rue Pipo, Juvénat 7, Pétion-Ville, Port-au-Prince, HT6140</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>bruno.lemarquis@un.org</email>
                              <internet>haiti.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Ulrika</forename>
                                        <surname>Ulfsdotter Richardson</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SACAC.121" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <!--address not confirmed-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Honduras</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Calle República de México 2816, Col. San Carlos, Tegucigalpa</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">2236-1300</telephone>
                              <email>alice.shackelford@un.org</email>
                              <internet>honduras.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Alice</forename>
                                        <surname>Harding Shackelford</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SACAC.122" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Jamaica</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>1-3 Lady Musgrave Rd, Kingston 5</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">978-2390</telephone>
                              <fax>946-2163</fax>
                              <email>jamaica.rco@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>jamaica.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">also covers Bahamas, Bermuda, Cayman Islands and Turks and Caicos Islands</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Dennis</forename>
                                        <surname>Zulu</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SACAC.123" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Mexico</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Montes Urales 440, Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, Miguel Hidalgo, 11000 Ciudad de México</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(55) 4000-9700</telephone>
                              <email>onumexico@un.org</email>
                              <internet>mexico.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Peter</forename>
                                        <surname>Grohmann</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SACAC.125" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Panama</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Apdo 0816-1914, Casa de las Naciones Unidas, Ciudad del Saber, Edif. 129, Panamá</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">302-4500</telephone>
                              <internet>panama.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Ana</forename>
                                        <surname>Graça</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SACAC.126" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <data-protection date-added="10.06.2021" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Paraguay</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>World Trade Center, Torre 1, Aviadores del Chaco 2050, Asunción</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(21) 611980</telephone>
                              <fax>(21) 611988</fax>
                              <email>unic.asuncion@unic.org</email>
                              <internet>paraguay.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Mario</forename>
                                        <surname>Samaja</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SACAC.127" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Peru</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Avda Jorge Chávez 275, Miraflores, Lima</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(1) 6259000</telephone>
                              <email>rcs-peru@un.org</email>
                              <internet>peru.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Igor</forename>
                                        <surname>Garafulic</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <!--rc 15.05.2023 cannot confirm role-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Trinidad and Tobago</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>
                3
                <sc>a</sc>
                 Chancery Lane, Port of Spain
              </verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">623-7059</telephone>
                              <email>faine.richards@un.org</email>
                              <internet>trinidadandtobago.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">also covers Aruba, Curaçao, Sint Maarten and Suriname</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Joanna</forename>
                                        <surname>Kazana-Wisniowiecki</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SACAC.129" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <!--rc 21.05.2021 cannot confirm tel and fax-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Uruguay</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>25 de Mayo 745, 11000 Montevideo</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">2909 3806</telephone>
                              <fax>2904 3739</fax>
                              <email>unrco.uruguay@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>uruguay.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Pablo</forename>
                                        <surname>Ruiz Hiebra</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SACAC.130" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <!--rc 21.05.2021 cannot confirm tel and fax-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Venezuela</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Avda Francisco de Miranda y 1060, Torre Parque Ávila, Caracas 1071</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>rcs-onu-venezuela@un.org</email>
                              <internet>venezuela.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Gianluca</forename>
                                        <surname>Rampolla del Tindaro</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
               </org-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-ASS.157" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ass">
               <heading>Offices of UN Resident Coordinators in Africa South of the Sahara</heading>
               <!--rc 27.01.2021 updated as of 01.01.2021-->
               <org-list>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.158" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Angola</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Edifício ONU, Condomínio Rosalinda, Estrada Direita da Samba, Luanda</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">226430880</telephone>
                              <email>rcs-onuangola@un.org</email>
                              <internet>angola.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Zahira</forename>
                                        <surname>Virani</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.UN.UNDP.100" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Benin</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Lot 111, Zone Residentielle, BP 506, Cotonou</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">21-31-30-45</telephone>
                              <fax>21-31-57-86</fax>
                              <email>rcs-onubeninregistry@un.org</email>
                              <internet>benin.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Salvator</forename>
                                        <surname>Niyonzima</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.160" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Botswana</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>UN Bldg, Khama Cres., Government Enclave, Gaborone</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">74217118</telephone>
                              <email>zia.choudhury@un.org</email>
                              <internet>botswana.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Zia</forename>
                                        <surname>Choudhury</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.UN.UNDP.101" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <!--rc 06.01.2021 cannot confirm tel fax-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Burkina Faso</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Immeuble des Nations Unies, 34 ave CES, secteur 401, 01 BP 575, Ouagadougou 01</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">25-31-04-70</telephone>
                              <internet>burkinafaso.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator a.i.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Alain</forename>
                                        <surname>Akpadji</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.162" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Burundi</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Rohero I-Ave des Patriotes N° 10, BP 1490, Bujumbura</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">22301100</telephone>
                              <internet>burundi.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Violet</forename>
                                        <surname>Kakyomya</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.164" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Cabo Verde</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Maison des Nations Unies, Avda OUA, Achada de Santo António, CP 62, Praia</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">260-06-00</telephone>
                              <fax>262-14-04</fax>
                              <email>unoffice.cv@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>www.un.cv</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Patricia</forename>
                                        <surname>Portela de Souza</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.163" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Cameroon</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>1232 Immeuble Mellopolis, rue 1794, Ekoudou, Bastos, Yaoundé</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">222-20-08-00</telephone>
                              <email>info.cameroon@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>cameroon.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator a.i.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Siaka</forename>
                                        <surname>Coulibaly</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.165" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <!--rc 01.06.2021 cannot confirm address details-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Central African Republic</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>PK4, ave Boganda, BP 3338, Bangui</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">75-89-72</telephone>
                              <email>mayoya@un.org</email>
                              <internet>republiquecentrafricaine.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Mohamed</forename>
                                        <surname>Ag Ayoya</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.166" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <!--GS 08.08.2016 Tel and fax not mentioned-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Chad</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Sis a l’ave, Idriss Miskine rue 1044, Quartier Klemat, BP 906, N'Djamena</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">63-90-09-64</telephone>
                              <email>coodination.chad@un.org</email>
                              <internet>chad.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>François</forename>
                                        <surname>Batalingaya</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.167" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Comoros</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Hamramba, BP 648, Moroni</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">763-1089</telephone>
                              <email>francois.batalingaya@un.org</email>
                              <internet>comoros.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>François</forename>
                                        <surname>Batalingaya</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.168" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Congo, Democratic Republic</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>ave Colonel Mondjiba, Concession Utex, Kinshasa </verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">81890-7128</telephone>
                              <email>ndeye.lo@un.org</email>
                              <internet>drcongo.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Bruno</forename>
                                        <surname>Lemarquis</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.169" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <!--rc 01.06.2021 cannot confirm address and contact details-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Congo, Republic</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>croisement ave Cardinal Emile Biayenda et rue Behagle, Brazzaville</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>joanne.pindera@un.org</email>
                              <internet>congo.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Chris</forename>
                                        <surname>Mburu</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.170" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Côte d'Ivoire</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>angle rue Gourgas et ave Marchand, Abidjan-Plateau, 01 BP 1747, Abidjan 01</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">20-31-74-03</telephone>
                              <email>snud.ci@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>cotedivoire.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Philippe</forename>
                                        <surname>Poinsot</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.171" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <!--rc 01.06.2021 cannot confirm tel fax-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Djibouti</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Tour Mezz, 8e étage, route de Venise, Djibouti</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>jose.barahona@un.org</email>
                              <internet>djibouti.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>José</forename>
                                        <surname>Barahona</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.172" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <!--GS 08.08.2016 Tel and fax not confirmed-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Equatorial Guinea</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>UNDP Compound, POB 339, Malabo</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>pont1@un.org</email>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Anna</forename>
                                        <surname>Marttinen-Pont</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.173" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Eritrea</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>UN Offices, 5 Hday St (Airport Rd), POB 5366, Asmara</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(1) 151166</telephone>
                              <fax>(1) 151081</fax>
                              <email>yohanes.tesfay@un.org</email>
                              <internet>eritrea.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Nahla</forename>
                                        <surname>Valji</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.200" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Eswatini</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>UN House, Somhlolo St, POB 261, Mbabane</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">24096600</telephone>
                              <fax>24045341</fax>
                              <email>registry.un.sz@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>eswatini.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>George</forename>
                                        <surname>Wachira</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.174" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Ethiopia</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Congo Bldg, Addis Ababa</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(11) 5444386</telephone>
                              <email>uncommunication.et@un.org</email>
                              <internet>ethiopia.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Ramiz</forename>
                                        <surname>Alakbarov</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.175" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Gabon</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Maison des Nations Unies, Près du Pont de Gué-Gué, BP 2183, Libreville</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">74-82-69-77</telephone>
                              <internet>gabon.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Savina</forename>
                                        <surname>Ammassari</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.176" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>The Gambia</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>5 ave Kofi Annan, Cape Point, POB 553, Banjul</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">4494760</telephone>
                              <email>rco.gm@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>gambia.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator a.i.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Desta</forename>
                                        <surname>Tiruneh</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.177" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Ghana</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Ring Rd Dual Carriage, nr Police HQ, POB 1423, Accra</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(21) 56709</telephone>
                              <fax>(21) 773899</fax>
                              <email>rcs-unrcoghana@un.org</email>
                              <internet>ghana.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Charles</forename>
                                        <surname>Abani</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.178" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Guinea</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Maison Commune, rue MA 002, Coléah Corniche Sud, BP 222, Conakry</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">24-40-49</telephone>
                              <email>coordination.gn@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>guinee.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Dr</title>
                                        <forename>Gualbert</forename>
                                        <surname>Gbèhounou</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.179" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Guinea-Bissau</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Rue Rui Djassi, Predio das Nacões Unidas, CP 179, 1011 Bissau Codex Bissau</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>un-gb@un.org</email>
                              <internet>guineabissau.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Anthony</forename>
                                        <surname>Ohemeng-Boamah</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.180" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Kenya</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>United Nations Ave, Gigiri, POB 30218, 00100 Nairobi</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>stephen.jackson@un.org</email>
                              <internet>kenya.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Stephen</forename>
                                        <surname>Jackson</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.181" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Lesotho</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>UN House, 13 United Nations Rd, Maseru</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">2222800</telephone>
                              <fax>22310042</fax>
                              <email>un.lesotho@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>lesotho.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Amanda</forename>
                                        <surname>Khozi Mukwashi</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.182" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Liberia</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>One UN House, 1st and 2nd Sts, Tubman Blvd, Sinkor, Monrovia</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>rco.lr@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>liberia.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Christine N.</forename>
                                        <surname>Umutoni</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.183" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Madagascar</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Maison Commune des Nations Unies, Zone Galaxy, rue du Dr Raseta, Andraharo, Antananarivo 101</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(20) 2330092</telephone>
                              <email>issa.sanogo@un.org</email>
                              <internet>madagascar.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Issa</forename>
                                        <surname>Sanogo</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>outgoing</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.184" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Malawi</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Plot No 7, Area 40, POB 30135, Lilongwe 3</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(1) 773500</telephone>
                              <email>rcs-malawi@un.org</email>
                              <internet>malawi.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Rebecca</forename>
                                        <surname>Adda-Dontoh</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.185" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Mali</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Maison Commune des Nations Unies, rue 39, Lot 2704 Badalabougou Est, Bamako</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>un_rco_ml@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>mali.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Alain</forename>
                                        <surname>Noudéhou</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.186" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <!--rc 02.06.2021 ownweb not working-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Mauritania</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Ilôt 159-161, route de la Corniche, BP 620, Nouakchott</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(45) 25-24-09</telephone>
                              <internet>mauritania.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Lila</forename>
                                        <surname>Pieters Yahia</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.187" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Mauritius</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Anglo-Mauritius House, 7th Floor, Intendance St, Port Louis</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">260-8200</telephone>
                              <email>rco-mauritius-seychelles-registry@un.org</email>
                              <internet>mauritius.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Lisa</forename>
                                        <surname>Singh</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">also serves Seychelles</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.188" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Mozambique</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Avda Kenneth Kaunda 931, POB 4595, Maputo</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(21) 481404</telephone>
                              <email>catherine.sozi@un.org</email>
                              <internet>mozambique.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Dr</title>
                                        <forename>Catherine</forename>
                                        <surname>Sozi</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.189" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Namibia</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>UN House, 38-44 Stein St, PMB 13329, Windhoek</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(61) 2046111</telephone>
                              <fax>(61) 2046203</fax>
                              <email>namibia.rco@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>namibia.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Hopolang</forename>
                                        <surname>Phororo</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.190" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Niger</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Maison des Nations Unies, 428 ave du Fleuve, BP 11207, Niamey</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">20-73-13-00</telephone>
                              <email>rcs-niger@un.org</email>
                              <internet>niger.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Louise</forename>
                                        <surname>Aubin</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.191" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Nigeria</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>UN House, Plot 617/618, Central Area District, Diplomatic Zone, Abuja</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>rc.office.nigeria@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>nigeria.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Mohamed M.</forename>
                                        <surname>Malick Fall</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.192" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Rwanda</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>4 KN 67 St, BP 455, Kigali</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">788122416</telephone>
                              <email>rcoffice.rw@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>rwanda.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Ozonnia</forename>
                                        <surname>Ojielo</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.193" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>São Tomé and Príncipe</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Edif. das Naçoes Unidas, Avda das Naçoes Unidas, CP 109, São Tomé</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">221123</telephone>
                              <fax>222198</fax>
                              <email>rcs-rco-stp@un.org</email>
                              <internet>saotomeeprincipe.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Eric Jan</forename>
                                        <surname>Overvest</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.194" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Senegal</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address> Immeuble Wolle Ndiaye, route du Meridien President, BP 154, Dakar</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">33-859-67-67</telephone>
                              <email>aminata.maiga@un.org</email>
                              <internet>senegal.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Aminata</forename>
                                        <surname>Maiga</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.196" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Sierra Leone</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Fourah Bay Close, off Main Motor Rd, POB 1011, Freetown</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <internet>sierraleone.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Seraphine</forename>
                                        <surname>Wakana</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.197" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Somalia</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <email>unsom-odsrsg-rc-hc@un.org</email>
                              <internet>somalia.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>George</forename>
                                        <surname>Conway</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.198" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>South Africa</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Metropark Bldg, 351 Francis Baard St, Pretoria 0001</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>muffuh@un.org</email>
                              <internet>southafrica.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Nelson</forename>
                                        <surname>Muffuh</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>South Sudan</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>UNDP Compound, Plot 21, Ministries Rd, POB 410, Juba</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>info.unct.ss@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>southsudan.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Anita Kiki</forename>
                                        <surname>Gbeho</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.199" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Sudan</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>House No 7, Block 5, Gama'a Ave, 11111 Khartoum</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(187) 120-000</telephone>
                              <internet>sudan.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Clementine</forename>
                                        <surname>Nkweta-Salami</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.201" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Tanzania</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>PSSSF Bldg, Plot No. 3, Sam Nujoma Rd, Dar es Salaam</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(22) 2199200</telephone>
                              <email>info.untz@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>tanzania.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Zlatan</forename>
                                        <surname>Milišić</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.202" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Togo</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>40 ave des Nations Unies, le étage, BP 911, Lomé</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">22-21-20-08</telephone>
                              <fax>22-21-19-16</fax>
                              <email>rcs-togo-registry@un.org</email>
                              <internet>togo.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator a.i.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Fatoumata Binta</forename>
                                        <surname>Tidiane Diallo</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.203" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Uganda</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>WFP Bldg, 5th Floor, Plot 17-19, Clement Hill Rd, Kampala</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>unrcs.uganda@un.org</email>
                              <internet>uganda.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Susan</forename>
                                        <surname>Ngongi Namondo</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.204" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Zambia</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>UN House, Alice Nkhata Rd, Longacres, POB 31966, Lusaka</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(21) 1386200</telephone>
                              <email>rcs-zambia@un.org</email>
                              <internet>zambia.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Beatrice</forename>
                                        <surname>Mutali</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.205" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Zimbabwe</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Block 10, Arundel Office Park, Norfolk Rd, Mt Pleasant, POB 4775, Harare</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(4) 338836</telephone>
                              <internet>zimbabwe.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Edward</forename>
                                        <surname>Kallon</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
               </org-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-MENA.155" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="mena">
               <heading>Offices of UN Resident Coordinators in the Middle East and North Africa</heading>
               <org-list>
                    <org-entry id="IO-MENA.156" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Algeria</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>41 rue Mohamed Khoudi, El Biar, Algiers</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(21) 92-01-01</telephone>
                              <fax>(21) 92-54-51</fax>
                              <internet>algeria.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Alejandro</forename>
                                        <surname>Alvarez</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-MENA.157" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <!--rc 03.09.2020 website not working-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Bahrain</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>UN House 69, Rd 1901, Hoora 319, POB 26814, Manama</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">17311600</telephone>
                              <fax>17311500</fax>
                              <email>registry.bh@undp.org</email>
                              <internet>bahrain.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Khaled</forename>
                                        <surname>El Mekwad</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-MENA.158" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Egypt</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>World Trade Center, 1191 Corniche el-Nil St, Boulaq, Cairo</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 24564811</telephone>
                              <fax>(2) 25742620</fax>
                              <email>unrco.eg@un.org</email>
                              <internet>egypt.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Elena</forename>
                                        <surname>Panova</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-MENA.159" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Iran</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>8 Shahrzad Blvd, POB 15875-4557, Darrous 1948773911, Tehran</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(21) 22860691</telephone>
                              <fax>(21) 22868123</fax>
                              <email>rcs-iranregistry@un.org</email>
                              <internet>iran.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Stefan</forename>
                                        <surname>Priesner</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-MENA.160" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Iraq</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>22/217 Diwan (UN Compound), Green Zone, Karada Maryam District, Baghdad</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>unctiraq@un.org</email>
                              <internet>iraq.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Ghulam Mohammad</forename>
                                        <surname>Isaczai</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-MENA.161" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Jordan</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>16 Majed Al Edwan St, Amman 11194</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(6) 5100420</telephone>
                              <email>rchc.jo@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>jordan.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Sheri</forename>
                                        <surname>Ritsema-Anderson</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-MENA.162" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Kuwait</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>
                 UN House, Block 7
                <sc>a</sc>
                , Mishref
              </verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">25308000</telephone>
                              <internet>kuwait.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Ghada Hatim</forename>
                                        <surname>Eltahir Mudawi</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-MENA.163" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Lebanon</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Arab African International Bank Bldg, Riad el-Solh St, Nejmeh, Beirut</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(1) 978405</telephone>
                              <email>unrco.lebanon@un.org</email>
                              <internet>lebanon.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Imran</forename>
                                        <surname>Riza</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-MENA.164" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <!--rc 03.06.2021 cannot confirm address and contact details-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Libya</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>c/o Immeuble le Prestige Business Center, Tour E et D, 2nd Floor, rue du Lac Windermere, Les Berges du Lac, Tunis 1053</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>georgette.gagnon1@un.org</email>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Georgette</forename>
                                        <surname>Gagnon</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <!--el Hillo = Sudanese-->
                    <org-entry id="IO-MENA.165" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Morocco</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>13 ave Ahmed Balafrej Souissi, 10000 Rabat</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(53) 7633090</telephone>
                              <fax>(53) 7633089</fax>
                              <email>unrc.ma@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>morocco.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Nathalie</forename>
                                        <surname>Fustier</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Palestine</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>
                4
                <sc>a</sc>
                 Alar 1 St, POB 490, Jerusalem 91004
              </verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 5687260</telephone>
                              <email>unsco-rcop@un.org</email>
                              <internet>palestine.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>
                  
                  Muhannad
                </forename>
                                        <surname>Hadi</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Saudi Arabia</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>POB 94623, Riyadh 11614, Saudi Arabia</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>RCS-KSA-commsteam@un.org</email>
                              <internet>saudiarabia.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Mohamed</forename>
                                        <surname>El Zarkani</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-MENA.168" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Syrian Arab Republic</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Mazzah, 8 West Villas Gazawi St, Damascus</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(11) 6129811</telephone>
                              <fax>(11) 6114541</fax>
                              <email>abdelmoula@un.org</email>
                              <internet>syria.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Adam</forename>
                                        <surname>Abdelmoula</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-MENA.169" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Tunisia</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Immeuble le Prestige Business Center, Tour A, rue du Lac Windermere, Les Berges du Lac, Tunis 1053</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(36) 011-680</telephone>
                              <email>arnaud.peral@un.org</email>
                              <internet>tunisia.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Arnaud</forename>
                                        <surname>Peral</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-MENA.170" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Türkiye</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>YIldIz Kule, YukarI Dikmen Mahallesi, Turan Güneş BulvarI, No. 106, Çankaya, Ankara 06550</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(312) 4541100</telephone>
                              <fax>(312) 4961463</fax>
                              <internet>turkiye.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Babatunde A.</forename>
                                        <surname>Ahonsi</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-MENA.171" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>United Arab Emirates</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>POB 3490, Abu Dhabi</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 6961999</telephone>
                              <fax>(2) 4467050</fax>
                              <email>dena.assaf@un.org</email>
                              <internet>unitedarabemirates@un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Bérangère</forename>
                                        <surname>Boëll-Yousfi</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-MENA.172" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Yemen</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>POB 551, Sana`a</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(1) 448605</telephone>
                              <fax>(1) 448841</fax>
                              <email>unrc.ye@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>yemen.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Julien</forename>
                                        <surname>Harneis</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
               </org-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-SASIA.UNDP.135" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="sasia">
               <heading>Offices of UN Resident Coordinators in South Asia</heading>
               <org-list>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Afghanistan</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>UNOCA Compound, Jalalabad Rd, Kabul</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <internet>afghanistan.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Indrika</forename>
                                        <surname>Ratwatte</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SASIA.UNDP.137" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="sasia">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Bangladesh</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>IDB Bhaban, E/8-A, Dhaka 1207</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 55667788</telephone>
                              <fax>(2) 9183099</fax>
                              <email>rcs-unbd@un.org</email>
                              <internet>bangladesh.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Gwyn</forename>
                                        <surname>Lewis</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SASIA.UNDP.138" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="sasia">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Bhutan</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>UN House, GPO Box 162, Dremton Lam, Thimphu</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 322424</telephone>
                              <internet>bhutan.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Karla Robin</forename>
                                        <surname>Hershey</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SASIA.UNDP.143" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="sasia">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>India</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>55 Lodhi Estate, New Delhi 110003</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(11) 46532333</telephone>
                              <email>rcs-unrco.india@un.org</email>
                              <internet>india.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Shombi</forename>
                                        <surname>Sharp</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SASIA.UNDP.150" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="sasia">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Maldives</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>H. Aage, 4th Floor, Boduthakurufaanu Magu, Malé</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">3324501</telephone>
                              <fax>3324504</fax>
                              <email>rcs-info-unmaldives@un.org</email>
                              <internet>maldives.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Catherine</forename>
                                        <surname>Haswell</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SASIA.UNDP.153" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="sasia">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Nepal</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>UN House, POB 107, Pulchowk, Kathmandu</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(1) 5523200</telephone>
                              <internet>nepal.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Hanaa</forename>
                                        <surname>Singer-Hamdy</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SASIA.UNDP.154" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="sasia">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Pakistan</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Serena Office Complex, 7th Floor, Khayaban-e-Suhrawardy, G-5/1, Islamabad</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <fax>(51) 260-0254</fax>
                              <internet>pakistan.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Mohamed</forename>
                                        <surname>Yahya</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SASIA.UNDP.158" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="sasia">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Sri Lanka</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>202-204 Bauddhaloka Mawatha, Colombo 7</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(11) 2580691</telephone>
                              <fax>(11) 2581116</fax>
                              <email>rcs-unsrilanka@un.org</email>
                              <internet>srilanka.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Marc-André</forename>
                                        <surname>Franche</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
               </org-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-FEA.135" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="fea">
               <heading>Offices of UN Resident Coordinators in the Far East and Australasia</heading>
               <org-list>
                    <org-entry id="IO-FEA.139" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Cambodia</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>53 rue Pasteur, Boeung Keng Kang, POB 877, Phnom Penh</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>rcs-uncambodia@un.org</email>
                              <internet>cambodia.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Joseph</forename>
                                        <surname>Scheuer</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-FEA.140" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>China, People's Republic</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, 100027 Beijing</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(10) 85320800</telephone>
                              <fax>(10) 85320900</fax>
                              <email>cn.registry@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>china.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Siddharth</forename>
                                        <surname>Chatterjee</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-FEA.144" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Indonesia</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Jalan M. H. Thamrin Kav 3, Jakarta 10250</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(21) 29802300</telephone>
                              <fax>(21) 3145251</fax>
                              <email>un-indonesia@un.or.id</email>
                              <internet>indonesia.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Valerie</forename>
                                        <surname>Julliand</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-UNDP.FEA.0001" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Korea, Democratic People's Republic</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>POB 27, 21 Munsudong, Pyongyang</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 3817772</telephone>
                              <email>rco.kp@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>dprkorea.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Joe</forename>
                                        <surname>Colombano</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-FEA.148" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Lao People’s Democratic Republic</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>UN House, Lane Xang Ave, POB 345, Vientiane</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(21) 267777</telephone>
                              <fax>(21) 267799</fax>
                              <email>rcs-laopdr@un.org</email>
                              <internet>laopdr.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename> Bakhodir</forename>
                                        <surname>Burkhanov</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-FEA.149" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Malaysia</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>UN Offices, Level 10, Menara PjH No 2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak Precinct 2, 62100 Putrajaya</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(3) 86896000</telephone>
                              <fax>(3) 88810458</fax>
                              <email>rco.my@un.org</email>
                              <internet>malaysia.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">also covers Brunei Darussalam and Singapore</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Karima</forename>
                                        <surname>El Korri</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Micronesia, Federated States</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Kolonia, Palikir, Pohnpei 96941</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <internet>micronesia.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Jaap</forename>
                                        <surname>van Hierden</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">also covers Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru and Palau</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-FEA.151" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Mongolia</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>UN House, United Nations St 14, Sükhbaatar District, 14201 Ulaanbaatar</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>tapan.mishra@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>mongolia.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Tapan</forename>
                                        <surname>Mishra</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-FEA.152" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Myanmar</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>No. 6 Natmauk Rd, Tamwe Township, Yangon 11211</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(1) 542911</telephone>
                              <fax>(1) 544531</fax>
                              <email>wina@un.org</email>
                              <internet>myanmar.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Ramanathan</forename>
                                        <surname>Balakrishnan</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-FEA.142" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Pacific</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Level 8, Kadavu House, 414 Victoria Parade, Suva, Fiji</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">322-7746</telephone>
                              <fax>330-1718</fax>
                              <email>unpacific.info@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>pacific.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">also covers Fiji, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu and Vanuatu</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Dirk</forename>
                                        <surname>Wagener</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-FEA.155" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Papua New Guinea</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>UN Office, Level 13, Kina Bank Haus, Douglas St, Port Moresby</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">3212877</telephone>
                              <email>rcs-uninpng-office@un.org</email>
                              <internet>papuanewguinea.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Richard</forename>
                                        <surname>Howard</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-FEA.156" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Philippines</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Rockwell Business Center, Sheridan North Tower, 15th Floor, cnr United and Sheridan Sts, Mandaluyong City</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 9010100</telephone>
                              <email>philippines@un.org</email>
                              <internet>philippines.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Gustavo</forename>
                                        <surname>González</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-FEA.157" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Samoa</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>One UN House, SIDS St, Tuanaimato, Apia</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">23670</telephone>
                              <email>simona.marinescu@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>samoa.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">also covers Cook Islands, Niue and Tokelau</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Themba</forename>
                                        <surname>Kalua</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-FEA.159" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Thailand</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>United Nations Bldg, 12th Floor, Rajdamnern Nok Ave, Bangkok 10200</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>rco-th@un.org</email>
                              <internet>thailand.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Gita</forename>
                                        <surname>Sabharwal</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">also covers Hong Kong</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-FEA.141" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <data-protection date-added="09.06.2021" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Timor-Leste</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>UN House, Caicoli St, Dili</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">3311220</telephone>
                              <fax>3313534</fax>
                              <email>funmi.balogun@un.org</email>
                              <internet>timorleste.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Olufunmilayo (Funmi) Abosede</forename>
                                        <surname>Balogun-Alexander</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-FEA.160" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Viet Nam</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Green One UN House, 304 Kim Ma, Ba Dinh, Hanoi</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(4) 38500100</telephone>
                              <email>rco.vn@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>vietnam.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Pauline</forename>
                                        <surname>Tamesis</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
               </org-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-EERCA.180" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="eerca">
               <heading>Offices of UN Resident Coordinators in Eastern Europe, Russia and Central Asia</heading>
               <org-list>
                    <org-entry id="IO-EERCA.181" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Armenia</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>0010 Yerevan, 14 Petros Adamyan St, Armenia</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(60) 53-00-00</telephone>
                              <fax>(10) 56-02-12</fax>
                              <email>uno.yerevan@unic.org</email>
                              <internet>armenia.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Françoise</forename>
                                        <surname>Jacob</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-EERCA.182" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Azerbaijan</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>1001 Baku , UN 50th Anniversary St 3</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(12) 498-98-88</telephone>
                              <fax>(12) 492-24-91</fax>
                              <email>office.az@one.un.org</email>
                              <internet>azerbaijan.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Vladanka</forename>
                                        <surname>Andreeva</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-EERCA.183" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Belarus</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>220050 Minsk, vul. Kirova 17</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>un.belarus@un.org</email>
                              <internet>belarus.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Rasul</forename>
                                        <surname>Baghirov</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-EERCA.184" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Georgia</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>0179 Tbilisi, Eristavi 9, UN House</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(32) 25-11-26</telephone>
                              <fax>(32) 25-02-71</fax>
                              <email>rcs-rcogeorgia@un.org</email>
                              <internet>georgia.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Sabine</forename>
                                        <surname>Machl</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-EERCA.185" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Kazakhstan</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>010000 Astana, 14, Mambetov kösh.</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(717 ) 269-65-50</telephone>
                              <email>rcs-kz@un.org</email>
                              <internet>kazakhstan.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename> Michaela</forename>
                                        <surname>Friberg-Storey</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-EERCA.186" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Kyrgyzstan</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>720040 Bishkek, 160 Pr. Chui</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(312) 61-12-11</telephone>
                              <fax>(312) 61-12-17</fax>
                              <email>rcs-registry-kg@un.org</email>
                              <internet>kyrgyzstan.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Antje</forename>
                                        <surname>Grawe</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-EERCA.187" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Moldova</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>2012 Chişinău, str. 31 August 131</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(22) 22-00-45</telephone>
                              <fax>(22) 22-00-41</fax>
                              <email>rco.moldova@un.org</email>
                              <internet>moldova.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Simon</forename>
                                        <surname>Springett</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-EERCA.189" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Tajikistan</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>734013 Dushanbe, Lohuti St 5/1</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <internet>tajikistan.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Kavilmadam Ramaswami</forename>
                                        <surname>Parvathy</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-EERCA.190" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Turkmenistan</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>744036 Aşgabat, 21 Archabil Ave</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(12) 48-83-25</telephone>
                              <email>rcs-turkmenistan-rco@un.org</email>
                              <internet>turkmenistan.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Dmitry</forename>
                                        <surname>Shlapachenko</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-EERCA.191" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Ukraine</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>01021 Kyiv, Klovsky Uzviz 1</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(44) 253-93-63</telephone>
                              <fax>(44) 253-26-07</fax>
                              <email>rco.ukraine@un.org</email>
                              <internet>ukraine.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Denise L.</forename>
                                        <surname>Brown</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-EERCA.192" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Uzbekistan</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>100029 Tashkent, Taras Shevchenko ko`ch. 4</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(71) 120-34-50</telephone>
                              <fax>(71) 120-34-85</fax>
                              <email>rco-uzbekistan@un.org</email>
                              <internet>uzbekistan.un.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Resident Coordinator a.i.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Consuelo</forename>
                                        <surname>Vidal Bruce</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
               </org-list>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-DOCO.0044" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Finance</heading>
          <p>
      With a view to securing consistent funding for the RC system, from 1 January 2019 member states’ contributions under the UNSDG’s existing cost-sharing mechanism were doubled. Furthermore, in July 2018 a dedicated Special Purpose Trust Fund was established. Its requirements in 2024 totalled US&#8201;$281m. UN member states were invited to support the inter-agency 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.SDG-F.1">Joint SDG Fund</xr>
      , a pooled mechanism for integrated policy support and strategic financing.
    </p>
     </int-org-section>
     <!--8.vi.24: 4,322 words-->
</int-org-entry>