<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="IO-UN.1443" id-root="io-un.1443" iso="io-un.1443" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee sacac ass mena sasia fea eerca"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees</org-entry-name>
               <abbr>UNHCR</abbr>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">UNITED NATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee sacac ass mena sasia fea eerca">REGIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb">United Nations (Other Bodies)</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="edio">United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">The United Nations in Central and South-Eastern Europe</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="sacac">The United Nations in South America, Central America and the Caribbean</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ass">The United Nations in Africa South of the Sahara</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="mena">The United Nations in the Middle East and North Africa</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="sasia">The United Nations in South Asia</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="fea">The United Nations in the Far East and Australasia</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="eerca">The United Nations in Eastern Europe, Russia and Central Asia</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>CP 2500, 1211 Geneva 2 dépôt, Switzerland</verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <telephone alsofax="N">227398111</telephone>
               <fax>227397377</fax>
               <email>unhcr@unhcr.org</email>
               <internet>www.unhcr.org</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p usage="ewyb casee edio eerca sacac ass mena sasia fea">The Office of the High Commissioner, established by the UN General Assembly in December 1950 (initially with a three-year mandate to address the needs of refugees in Europe displaced by the Second World War), provides assistance and international protection to refugees and to internally displaced persons, and seeks durable solutions to their problems.</p>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1445" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <heading-note>April 2024</heading-note>
          <p>The High Commissioner is elected by the UN General Assembly, and is responsible to the General Assembly and to the UN Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC). The High Commissioner is supported by a Deputy High Commissioner; an Assistant High Commissioner for Protection (who manages the division on International Protection, and a co-ordination team and a multi-stakeholder engagement team supporting the Global Compact on Refugees); and an Assistant High Commissioner for Operations (who oversees divisions of Emergency, Security and Supply; and Resilience and Solutions; the seven Regional Bureaux; the Principal Adviser on Internal Displacement, and the Special Adviser on Climate Action).</p>
          <dir-list>
               <dir-entry id="IO-UN.UNHCR.1450" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                    <dir-entry-name>High Commissioner</dir-entry-name>
                    <person-group>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Filippo</forename>
                                   <surname>Grandi</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Italy</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </person-group>
                    <!--27.ix.22 - Grandi re-confirmed until 31.xii.25-->
               </dir-entry>
               <dir-entry id="IO-UN.1449" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                    <dir-entry-name>Deputy High Commissioner</dir-entry-name>
                    <person-group>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Kelly T.</forename>
                                   <surname>Clements</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>USA</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </person-group>
               </dir-entry>
               <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF" usage="edio ewyb ass">
                    <dir-entry-name>Assistant High Commissioner, Operations</dir-entry-name>
                    <person-group>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Raouf</forename>
                                   <surname>Mazou</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Republic of the Congo</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </person-group>
               </dir-entry>
               <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF" usage="edio ewyb ass">
                    <dir-entry-name>Assistant High Commissioner, Protection</dir-entry-name>
                    <person-group>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Ruvendrini</forename>
                                   <surname>Menikdiwela</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Sri Lanka</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </person-group>
               </dir-entry>
          </dir-list>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1450" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Executive Committee</heading>
               <p>The Executive Committee of the High Commissioner's Programme (ExCom), established by ECOSOC, meets once a year (75th session: October 2024), and during the period October 2023-October 2024 comprised representatives of 108 states. ExCom gives the High Commissioner policy directives regarding material assistance programmes and advice on international protection. In addition, it oversees UNHCR's general policies and use of funds. A Standing Committee meets throughout the year to support ExCom’s activities.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1452" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Administration</heading>
               <p usage="ewyb edio">The Office of the High Commissioner includes an Executive Office (comprising an Ethics Office, Evaluation Office, Global Data Service, Governance Service, the New York Liaison Office, and the Special Adviser on Development); and an Inspector General’s Office; Office of the Director for Change; Principal Communications Adviser; Special Envoy for the Central Mediterranean Situation; Joint UNHCR-IOM Special Representative for Venezuelan Refugees and Migrants; and Special Envoy for the Horn of Africa. There is also a Principal Adviser on Displacement; Special Adviser on Climate Action; and seven Regional Bureaux—covering the Americas: based in Panamá, Panama; Asia and the Pacific: Bangkok, Thailand; East Africa and the Horn of Africa: Nairobi, Kenya; Europe: Geneva; Middle East and North Africa: Amman, Jordan; Southern Africa: Pretoria, South Africa; and West and Central Africa: Dakar, Senegal).</p>
               <p usage="ass">A Special Envoy for the Horn of Africa is attached to the Executive Office.</p>
               <p usage="casee">A Special Envoy for the Central Mediterranean Situation is attached to the Executive Office.</p>
               <p usage="sacac">A UNHCR-IOM Joint Special Representative for Venezuelan Refugees and Migrants is attached to the Executive Office.</p>
               <p>In 2024 UNHCR was active in 138 countries, and employed 18,879 staff, of whom 87% were field-based. UNHCR Global Service Centres, based in Budapest (Hungary), Copenhagen (Denmark), and Amman (Jordan), provide administrative support to the headquarters.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-SACAC.241" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="sacac">
               <heading>Regional Offices</heading>
               <org-list>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SACAC.242" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Regional Office for the USA and the Caribbean</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>1775 K St, NW, Suite 300, Washington, DC 20006, USA</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>usawa@unhcr.ch</email>
                         </address-block>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SACAC.243" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Regional Office for Northern South America</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>
                Apdo 69045, Caracas 1062-
                <sc>A</sc>
                , Venezuela
              </verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>venca@unhcr.ch</email>
                         </address-block>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-SACAC.244" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Regional Office for Southern South America</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Cerrito 836, 10°, Buenos Aires 1010, Argentina</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>argbu@unhcr.ch</email>
                         </address-block>
                    </org-entry>
               </org-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-ASS.322" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ass">
               <heading>Offices in Africa</heading>
               <org-list>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.323" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Regional Office for Central Africa</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>BP 7248, Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>codki@unhcr.ch</email>
                         </address-block>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.324" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Regional Office for West Africa</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>BP 3125, Dakar, Senegal</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>senda@unhcr.ch</email>
                         </address-block>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-ASS.325" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Regional Office for Southern Africa</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>BP 12506, Pretoria 0001, South Africa</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>rsapr@unhcr.ch</email>
                         </address-block>
                    </org-entry>
               </org-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-FEA.272" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="fea">
               <heading>Office in the Far East and Australasia</heading>
               <org-list>
                    <org-entry id="IO-FEA.273" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Regional Office for Australia, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea and the Pacific</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>14 Kendall Lane, New Acton, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 6281-9100</telephone>
                              <fax>(2) 6247-2933</fax>
                              <email>aulca@unhcr.org</email>
                              <internet>www.unhcr.org.au</internet>
                         </address-block>
                    </org-entry>
               </org-list>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1454" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Activities</heading>
          <p>The competence of the High Commissioner extends to any person who, owing to well-founded fear of war, violence or persecution, is outside the country of his or her nationality; to stateless people; and to internally displaced persons (IDPs—with similar needs to those of refugees but who have not crossed an international border) or those who are threatened with displacement. IDPs include—in addition to conflict-affected populations—people displaced by situations of general violence, human rights violations, natural or human-made disasters or environmental degradation. UNHCR aims to address the fundamental causes of refugee flows, and has urged recognition and comprehension of the broad patterns of global displacement and migration, and of the mixed nature of many 21st century population flows, which often comprise economic migrants, refugees, asylum seekers and victims of trafficking requiring detection and support.</p>
          <p>
      In the UN system UNHCR is lead co-ordinator in refugee emergencies. Within the UN’s overall Cluster Approach to co-ordinate an international response to humanitarian disasters, UNHCR is the lead agency for Protection, and in conflict situations the Office leads the clusters on Camp Co-ordination and Camp Management (CCCM) (the 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="IOM.IO">International Organization for Migration</xr>
      —IOM—leads that cluster in natural disaster situations), and on Shelter (with the 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="IRC.IO">International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies</xr>
       leading in natural disaster situations).
    </p>
          <p>
      At 31 December 2022 the total population of concern to UNHCR, based on provisional figures, amounted to 112.6m., compared with 94.7m. in the previous year, and with 33.9m. in 2010. The total number of people forcibly displaced as a result of persecution, conflict or other violence amounted to 108.4m. by the end of 2022, including 35.3m. refugees and people in refugee-like situations (of whom 29.4m. came under UNHCR’s mandate, and 5.9m. Palestinians under the mandate of the 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.1643">UN Relief and Works Agency</xr>
      —UNRWA), 62.5m. IDPs, and 5.4m. asylum seekers. UNHCR was also concerned with 6m. recently returned refugees and IDPs, 4.4m. stateless persons, and 5.2m. others deemed to require the Office’s protection or assistance.
    </p>
          <p usage="ewyb edio sacac mena sasia">The states hosting the most refugees (or people in refugee-like situations) at end-2022 were Türkiye (3.6m.), Iran (3.4m.), Colombia (2.5m.—including others in need of international protection), Germany (2.1m.), and Pakistan (1.7m.). As at 31 December 2022 Aruba was hosting the largest number of refugees relative to its national population (one in six), owing to an influx of people fleeing socioeconomic turmoil in Venezuela, followed by Lebanon (one in seven, mainly Syrian, refugees), Curaçao (one in 14, mainly Venezuelans), Jordan (one in 16), and Montenegro (1 in 19).</p>
          <p usage="ewyb edio mena sacac sasia">The Office noted that 76% of refugees and other people in need of international protection in 2022 were hosted by low- and middle-income countries that were already under severe economic pressure, and that least developed countries were hosting one-fifth of the global total of refugees.</p>
          <p usage="ewyb edio mena eerca sasia">As at the end of 2022 more than one-half (52%) of all refugees and other people in need of international protection originated from only three countries: Syria, Ukraine and Afghanistan.</p>
          <p>In September 2016 a UN high-level Summit on Addressing Large Movements of Refugees and Migrants adopted the New York Declaration for Refugees and Migrants. Several commitments were made therein that aimed to ensure the rights and safety of refugees, acknowledging in particular the vulnerability of women and children, and the risks posed by trafficking and forced labour. The Office was tasked with leading a broad consultative process to formulate a Global Compact on Refugees. This was eventually adopted by the UN General Assembly in December 2018, and had four principal objectives: to relieve the pressure on refugee hosting countries; to enhance refugee self-reliance; to expand access to third-country solutions; and to support conditions in refugees’ countries of origin to enable safe, dignified returns. It incorporated a Comprehensive Refugee Response Framework, already approved as an annex to the New York Declaration, which aimed to strengthen the resilience of host communities. It also defined a Programme of Action to support host countries and refugees, determined that a ministerial Global Refugee Forum (GRF) would be convened periodically, and proposed the establishment of multi-stakeholder Support Platforms to address specific refugee situations.</p>
          <p>The second GRF was convened in December 2023, in Geneva (the first having been held in December 2019). Financial commitments estimated at US&#8201;$2,200m. were made during the event.</p>
          <p usage="edio">From 2021 UNHCR introduced a results-based `COMPASS’ strategic management approach, which aimed to support the implementation of the Global Compact on Refugees and of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs); some 52 core indicators were incorporated into the COMPASS approach, to measure related progress. Under COMPASS UNHCR’s country plans were to be more efficiently aligned with those of partner agencies and of national governments, with a focus on including refugees and stateless people in national health and education systems, social security and job creation initiatives, and in local development and peacebuilding programmes. UNHCR has advocated for the inclusion of populations of concern in COVID-19 vaccination campaigns. It focuses operational programming the following impact areas: Protect, Respond, Empower, and Solve.</p>
          <p>The Office maintains an online population statistics database. World Refugee Day, sponsored by UNHCR, is held annually on 20 June.</p>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1459" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>International Protection</heading>
               <p>
        In the exercise of its mandate UNHCR seeks to ensure that refugees and asylum seekers are protected against 
        <i>refoulement</i>
         (forcible return); that they receive asylum; and that they are treated according to internationally recognized standards. The Office discourages the detention and encampment of refugees and asylum seekers, as this restricts their freedom of movement and opportunities to become self-reliant. UNHCR supervises the application of, and actively encourages states to accede to, the 1951 UN Convention relating to the Status of Refugees (with 146 parties at January 2024) and its 1967 Protocol (which had 147 parties at that time). These define the rights as well as the duties of refugees and contain provisions that address a variety of matters that affect their day-to-day lives. The treatment of refugees is also guided by a number of instruments adopted at regional level. UNHCR works in countries of origin and of asylum to ensure that policies, laws and practices comply with international commitments, and seeks to facilitate swift, just asylum procedure systems.
      </p>
               <p>UNHCR prioritizes the specific needs of refugee women, children, and elderly refugees in its programme planning and implementation. The Office actively seeks solutions to support refugees residing in urban areas (representing more than three-fifths of all refugees). In June 2011 UNHCR issued an updated strategy on Action against Sexual and Gender-Based Violence. A UNHCR Framework for the Protection of Children was adopted in 2012. Since 2017 UNHCR has reported on the number of unaccompanied and separated children in refugee populations, and from 2018 the Office urged national governments to follow suit. In 2022 there were 51,700 new asylum applications from unaccompanied or separated children (compared with 21,000 in the previous year).</p>
               <p usage="edio ass mena">UNHCR has attempted to address the issue of military attacks on refugee camps through the promotion of a set of principles aimed at ensuring refugee safety.</p>
               <p usage="edio ass">As a co-sponsor of the Joint UN Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), UNHCR promotes access for displaced populations to HIV/AIDS prevention services, treatment and care.</p>
               <p>In November 2014 UNHCR initiated a 10-year global action plan focused on ending statelessness (lack of legal nationality). The Office promotes new accessions to the 1951 Convention Relating to the Status of Stateless Persons (which had 96 states parties at January 2024) and to the 1961 Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness (with 79 states parties at that time).</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio">UNHCR has criticized a trend by governments to withdraw citizenship from certain captured foreign terrorist fighters and their families (those believed to be eligible for dual or multiple citizenships), thereby rendering many in effect stateless.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1463" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Assistance Activities</heading>
               <p>In the early stages of a crisis UNHCR conducts an initial assessment to ascertain the scale of response required and immediate critical requirements. Rapid assessments are undertaken next to identify key priorities for intervention and to estimate total resource requirements. UNHCR uses existing data to accelerate its crisis assessments. The subsequent pattern of operations is as follows: emergency planning (in complex emergencies a UNHCR-led inter-agency Refugee Response Plan is organized); implementation; monitoring; reporting; and evaluation. The Office’s assistance can take various forms, including the provision of shelter/non-food items (NFIs—for example household goods, jerry cans, sleeping mats and blankets; also referred to as core relief items—CRIs), clean water, sanitation, medical care, education, and counselling; supporting asylum applications; and facilitating refugee registration. UNHCR has developed a Biometric Identity Management System (BIMS), which swiftly registers and verifies refugees’ identities, using iris scans, fingerprints and digital photographs, and gathers detailed social background information on education, skills, etc.</p>
               <p>As far as possible, assistance is geared towards the identification and implementation of durable solutions to refugee problems. These generally take one of three forms: voluntary repatriation; local integration; or resettlement onwards to a third country. Where voluntary repatriation, generally the preferred solution, is feasible, the Office assists refugees to overcome obstacles preventing their return to their country of origin. This may be done through negotiations with governments involved, and by arranging transport for and providing basic assistance packages to repatriating refugees, and also by implementing or supporting local integration or reintegration programmes in their home countries, including Quick Impact Projects (QIPs) aimed at income generation and at the restoration of local infrastructures. Similarly, the Office works to enable local communities to support returned IDPs. Some 339,300 refugees repatriated voluntarily to their home countries (numbering 38) in 2022. When voluntary repatriation is not an option, efforts are made to assist refugees to integrate locally and to become self-supporting in their countries of asylum. Assistance in procuring accommodation may be offered, as well as the provision of skills training, or of loans. In cases where resettlement through emigration is the only viable solution to a refugee problem, UNHCR negotiates with governments to obtain suitable resettlement opportunities, to encourage liberalization of admission criteria, and to draft special immigration schemes. Some 114,300 refugees were resettled to third countries in 2022, representing a significant increase over the total in 2021 (57,500).</p>
               <!--Connected Refugees: How the Internet and Mobile Connectivity Can Improve Refugee Well-being and Transform Humanitarian Action ix.16-->
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1510" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio sacac">
               <heading>The Americas</heading>
               <p usage="edio">Since 1984 a major regional meeting on refugees and displaced persons has been convened at 10-yearly intervals. Gathered in Cartagena, Colombia, in November 1984, 10 Latin American heads of state and of government adopted the (non-binding) Cartagena Declaration on Refugees and Displaced Persons, which somewhat extended the definition of `refugee’ beyond that provided for under the 1951 Convention, to include, for example, people fleeing severe generalized violations of human rights. (In mid-2019 UNHCR welcomed the first practical application of the expanded definition—by Brazil, which granted refugee status at that time to Venezuelans, with no criminal record, who had sought refuge from their home country’s profound socioeconomic crisis.)</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio sacac">In December 2014 UNHCR and regional governments, convened in Brasília, Brazil, adopted the Brazil Declaration, comprising a co-operation framework and related plan of action to guide activities relating to the protection of refugees, displaced and stateless persons in Latin America and the Caribbean during the period 2015-24. The plan of action comprised 11 strategic programmes, including a new initiative focused on maintaining borders as areas of safety and protection. In February 2018 a meeting of regional stakeholders, held in Brasília, adopted a document, `100 points of Brasília’, which represented the region’s contribution to the Global Compact on Refugees that was endorsed by the UN General Assembly later in the year.</p>
               <!--~ 1996 Puebla Process - IOM-->
               <p>
        The political and socioeconomic crisis that escalated in Venezuela from 2015 prompted an increasingly large-scale population movement. There were also pendular movements of people who had to cross borders to meet basic needs, and an outflow from Venezuela of returnees to their countries of origin. A number of impromptu refugee camps arose at the Colombia-Venezuela border, notably in the Colombian city of Cúcuta. By 30 November 2023 there were reported to be 7.7m. Venezuelan migrants, asylum seekers and refugees, of whom 6.5m. were residing in host countries in Latin America and the Caribbean, including 2.9m. in Colombia, 1.5m. in Peru, 510,500 in Brazil, 474,900 in Ecuador, 444,400 in Chile, 217,700 in Argentina, and 124,100 in the Dominican Republic. By 30 June 2023 there were 300,759 recognized Venezuelan refugees globally (of whom 134,600 were in Spain and 89,300 were in Brazil), and 1,184,889 pending asylum claims submitted by Venezuelans (including 532,700 in Peru and 455,500 in the USA). Some countries—for example participants in 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="MERCOSUR.IO">MERCOSUR</xr>
        ’s regional visa system—had specific residency procedures in place for Venezuelans that were outside the asylum system, facilitating their socioeconomic integration through access to formal jobs and services (including to national vaccination campaigns). Nearly 4.5m. residence and regular stay permits had been granted to Venezuelans by August 2023.
      </p>
               <p>
        In September 2018 a Joint UNHCR-
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IOM.IO">IOM</xr>
         Special Representative was appointed to address the Venezuelan crisis and its impact on the region, and a Regional Inter-agency Co-ordination Mechanism (`RV4’) was established to facilitate a coherent operational response. By 2024 this had more than 200 participating organizations. An 18-point Quito Declaration on the Human Mobility of Venezuelan Citizens was signed in September 2018 by 11 Latin American governments; a supporting plan of action was adopted in November, and technical meetings of the so-called `Quito Process’ have been convened regularly. In July 2019, within the framework of the Quito Process, UNHCR and IOM issued a roadmap towards reinforcing co-operation, communication and co-ordination between countries of migrant transit and destination in the region; enhancing measures aimed at deterring people-smuggling and trafficking; and protecting the most vulnerable migrants by combating discrimination, xenophobia and sexual and gender-based violence. At that time regional governments agreed to support the use of an Information Card for Regional Mobility, in support of documentation and registration processes at national level.
      </p>
               <p usage="edio sacac">From March 2020, however, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, strict preventive restrictions were imposed on borders throughout the region, as well as prolonged national lockdown measures and domestic curbs on mobility, which adversely impacted the capacity of refugees and migrants to sustain their livelihoods and to access basic goods and services. Subsequently pendular movements of Venezuelan migrants and refugees reprised, while some refugees and migrants chose to repatriate to Venezuela.</p>
               <p>
        In February 2021 UNHCR and 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IOM.IO">IOM</xr>
         welcomed a decision by the Colombian authorities to issue a formal 10-year Temporary Protection Status (TPS) to Venezuelan migrants, thereby stabilizing their circumstances and enabling their access to rights and services.&#160;A UNHCR-IOM-led regional Refugee and Migrant Response Plan (RMRP) for 2023-24 aimed to assist, through protection, humanitarian, and socioeconomic integration activities, around 3.4m. people—including migrants in transit, those making pendular movements between Venezuela and Colombia, Colombian returnees, and members of host communities receiving Venezuelan refugees. During 2024 the RMRP required funding of US&#8201;$1,587m. from the international community.
      </p>
               <p>Following the conclusion in 2016 of a final peace accord between the Colombian Government and the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia (FARC, the largest Colombian rebel group), the High Commissioner stated that UNHCR would continue to respond to internal displacement in Colombia, and would focus in particular on the integration of Indigenous communities and other marginal groups. Subsequently, owing to a continuing insurgency by the rebel grouping Ejército De Liberación Nacional (ELN) and other parallel militant and criminal activity, waves of displacement persisted. At 28 February 2023 some 6,834,492 Colombian IDPs who had been displaced since 1985 were of concern to UNHCR, including 922,591 Colombian refugees who had been uprooted since the 2016 peace accord, and 214,739 who had been newly displaced in 2022. In many cases IDPs resided in informal settlements under the control of militia. UNHCR monitors civilians in communities that are under threat from the presence of armed militants, and implements local initiatives aimed at promoting socioeconomic inclusion and at preventing xenophobia.</p>
               <p>
        Increasing unrest in El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras (`the Northern Triangle’) has in recent years led to significant forced population movements, particularly towards Mexico and the USA. At 31 December 2022 there were 953,279 people of concern to UNHCR within Central America and Mexico, including 398,275 refugees and asylum seekers, and some 318,590 IDPs in El Salvador and Honduras. Crime and violence rooted in economic and food insecurity, and associated with climate change (i.e. an intensification of both rains and drought in the Central American `dry corridor’) were reported to be the principal causes of the displacement. In July 2016 UNHCR and the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="OAS.IO">Organization of American States</xr>
         (OAS) co-chaired a high-level roundtable meeting, in San José, Costa Rica, attended by government representatives of seven Central American countries, Canada and the USA, to address the situation of people fleeing the Northern Triangle. The meeting agreed a series of comprehensive, collaborative actions—issued in the following month as the San José Action Statement—including enhancing protection measures in countries of origin, and the provision of international protection for asylum seekers and refugees. A Joint UNHCR-OAS Technical Secretariat, activated in 2018, supports the Comprehensive Regional Protection and Solutions Framework (Marco Integral Regional para la Protección y Soluciones—MIRPS), which was established in 2017, to promote the rights of migrants and refugees from or transiting through Belize, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico and Panama. Under MIRPS, each country pursues a national action plan and forms strategic alliances with local authorities, civil society, private sector interests, multilateral organizations, and other states, to address the needs of displaced persons and the communities hosting them. A Support Platform for MIRPS, comprising Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, France, Italy, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the USA and the EU, was established in December 2019, and in May 2020 a MIRPS Fund was launched. In January 2024 the sixth MIRPS annual meeting approved a MIRPS Statutory Charter. In Central America UNHCR assists IDPs, and works to strengthen national asylum systems and to promote the integration of refugees into host communities.
      </p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio sacac">
        During 2021-early 2024 unprecedented numbers of USA-bound migrants and asylum seekers gathered in northern Mexico, driven by, 
        <i>inter alia,</i>
         the socioeconomic collapse in Venezuela, violent instability in Haiti, a political crackdown in Nicaragua, and violence in Ecuador. In May 2023 the US Administration of President Joe Biden introduced new legislation requiring migrants and people seeking international protection in the USA to pre-book scheduled appointments (numbering 1,450 daily as at July) with the US customs and border protection agency—via a smartphone app—prior to approaching the border. Nevertheless, some 302,000 border encounters were made in December (compared with a monthly average of 39,000 during 2013-19). In August 2023 UNHCR stated concern that many arrivals at the southern US border did not have access to information or legal support that would best guide their decision making. The agency stated its willingness to work with the US and other national authorities to ensure that safe pathways were in place for asylum seekers. During 2024 UNHCR and IOM were supporting a US Safe Mobility initiative, that aimed to expand legal routes to the USA for refugees and migrants from South and Central America.
      </p>
               <!--app not universally accessible-->
               <p usage="ewyb edio">UNHCR provides counselling and legal services for asylum seekers in Canada and the USA, and supports the integration of resettled refugees in both countries (both major resettlement destinations). At 31 December 2022 the estimated refugee populations totalled 140,621 in Canada and 363,059 in the USA, while asylum seekers numbered 113,066 and 1,798,792, respectively. Canada received 47,000 resettlement arrivals in that year (of whom 45% originated in Afghanistan), and the USA 29,000.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1514" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
               <heading>Central and South-Eastern Europe</heading>
               <p usage="edio casee">In November 2011 the ministers responsible for foreign affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Montenegro and Serbia, having been assisted by UNHCR to develop a binding common commitment to address the region’s protracted population displacement, issued a joint declaration that paved the way for the development of a Regional Housing Programme (RHP) to pursue housing solutions for vulnerable refugees and promote reconciliation in the region. By end-2023, when the RHP came to an end, housing units had been completed for 11,300 families. At 31 December 2022 there was still an estimated total Bosnian refugee population of 17,713, with the majority residing in Germany and Serbia. Also at the end of 2022 there were 96,305 IDPs of concern to UNHCR in Bosnia and Herzegovina, for whom UNHCR was seeking long-term solutions.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio casee">UNHCR has worked to strengthen asylum procedures in Kosovo and aims to implement durable solutions for the remaining IDPs and for people considering repatriation. UNHCR reported 29,321 voluntary minority returns during 2000-October 2023, including 12,762 Kosovo Serbs, 7,770 Kosovo Egyptians and Kosovo Ashkali, and 4,077 Kosovo Roma. At the end of 2022 there were still more than 200,000 Kosovars in need of durable solutions in the western Balkans (mainly Serbia), and there were 15,646 IDPs within Kosovo.</p>
               <p usage="casee">Some 26,521 refugees from Croatia (principally) and Bosnia and Herzegovina were hosted in Serbia at 31 December 2022. UNHCR has expanded its durable solution programmes for IDPs in Serbia, by assisting with the construction of social housing, by providing cash grants to help people to move to the new accommodation, and by organizing self-reliance projects.</p>
               <p usage="casee">UNHCR’s 2024 Regional Refugee Response Plan for the Ukraine situation, issued in February, required US&#8201;$1,100m. to fund operations, in collaboration with 313 partners, in: Bulgaria (accommodating 72,775 Ukrainian refugees under temporary protection at 8 March 2024), Czech Republic (381,400, at 31 January), Estonia (38,020, at 2 March), Hungary (66,135, at 17 March), Latvia (47,616, at 6 March), Lithuania (41,490, at 11 March), Moldova (116,855, at 31 March), Poland (956,635, at 15 December 2023), Romania (77,250, at 10 March 2024), and Slovakia (117,265 at 3 March). In the refugee-receiving countries UNHCR aimed to support the socioeconomic inclusion of refugees (particularly the most vulnerable), to provide protection services, to support access to nutrition, health, education and livelihoods, and to provide cash assistance for essential needs. The Plan was also to assist 55,000 members of host communities. As at 14 March 2024, in total, 5,982,900 Ukrainians were accommodated within Europe (around 4.4m. had temporary protection status) and 503,100 beyond Europe. There were 3,689,000 IDPs in Ukraine at 31 December 2023.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio casee">Throughout the region UNHCR is concerned to reduce and prevent statelessness, and to promote respect for the basic rights of stateless people. The Office has undertaken a civil registration programme for undocumented IDPs in Kosovo and Serbia, particularly members of Roma, Ashkali and Egyptian communities in Kosovo, deemed to be at risk of statelessness. As at 31 December 2022 70,594 people in Estonia and 187,564 in Latvia were registered as stateless; in each country ethnic Russians comprised the majority of the stateless population.</p>
               <p usage="casee">In June 2013 the European Union (EU) adopted a Common European Asylum System (CEAS), establishing common asylum standards for its member states; UNHCR has aimed to raise regional awareness of the CEAS, and also to support EU member states with incorporating CEAS standards into domestic legal frameworks.</p>
               <p usage="edio casee">In 2015 more than 1m. refugees and migrants crossed the Mediterranean into Europe, of whom some 850,000 travelled across the Aegean and Dodecanese seas from Turkey (known since June 2022 as Türkiye) into Greece. Most of the refugees and migrants landing in Greece were reported to be in transit, via the Western Balkans, towards Austria, Germany, and other destinations in Western and Northern Europe. From mid-2015 UNHCR deployed personnel to locations in the eastern Aegean, to advise and assist incoming refugees and to support unaccompanied children and other particularly vulnerable people. Nearly 600,000 migrants reportedly passed through Serbia during the second half of that year. Following the securing of the Hungary-Serbia frontier with a deterrent razor-wire fence, which was completed in October, the majority of migrants rerouted into Croatia, and once that country’s border controls had been tightened the Slovenia-Austria border became the focus of the migration route northwards. The construction of border fences was initiated in November by Slovenia, the former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia—FYRM (now North Macedonia), and Austria. Meanwhile, Croatia, the FYRM, Serbia and Slovenia limited entry for Afghan, Iraqi and Syrian citizens. UNHCR supported the implementation of a 17-point plan of action agreed in October by EU and non-member state Balkan leaders as a framework for co-operation on managing the influx of refugees through the Balkans, and also advised on the construction of facilities at Reception and Identification Centres at locations experiencing a heavy influx of migrants and refugees. Meanwhile, UNHCR established Border Management and Protection of Refugees projects in Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia. These were undertaken on the basis of tripartite agreements between UNHCR, the relevant state authorities, and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Under the projects, participating NGOs made regular visits to border crossings and detention centres to assess the situation of and provide legal advice to new arrivals; their findings were then reported onwards to the local border police and to UNHCR.</p>
               <p usage="edio casee">
        In March 2016 the Hungarian Government issued a decree that declared a `crisis situation due to mass immigration’. In March 2017 UNHCR stated deep concern at a decision by the Hungarian legislature that authorized the automatic mandatory detention in border camps of all asylum seekers. This was presented by the Hungarian authorities as a measure aimed at preventing terrorism, and, reportedly, also at protecting its traditionally Christianity-based culture and identity (the majority of asylum seekers being Muslim). In April the Office urged the EU to suspend temporarily asylum seeker returns to Hungary, pending the alignment of relevant policy and practice in that country with European and international law. In February 2018 UNHCR urged the Hungarian authorities to abandon proposed legislation that aimed to end the extension of support to asylum seekers by civil society and NGOs. UNHCR stated concern in June 2020 over the adoption in Hungary, in response to the COVID-19 emergency, of new legislation under which potential asylum seekers were—in contravention of the provisions of the 1951 Convention—to be refused entry at the Hungarian border and redirected to declare their intentions at a designated Hungarian diplomatic mission, thereby exposing them to the risk of 
        <i>refoulement.</i>
         During 2016-21 more than 70,000 migrants were forcibly removed from Hungarian territory.
      </p>
               <p usage="edio casee">In March 2016 an EU-Turkey accord entered into effect that provided for failed asylum seekers, and migrants arriving post-20 March who did not apply for asylum in Greece, to be returned to Turkey. Among concessions offered to Turkey in return, EU member states were to resettle one Turkey-based Syrian refugee for every migrant returned to that country from Greece. In accordance with the agreement (to which UNHCR was not a party) former refugee reception centres were reclassified as detention facilities. In view of UNHCR’s opposition to mandatory detention, it suspended certain of its activities at the former centres, including the provision of transport. UNHCR personnel continued, however, to provide life-saving assistance at coastal locations, to undertake protection monitoring, to identify incomers with specific assistance needs, to offer counselling to new arrivals, and to provide information on rights and procedures. UNHCR and partners also continued to improve conditions in camps on the Greek mainland. From early 2017-September 2021 UNHCR administered an EU-funded cash assistance programme for Greece-based asylum seekers; responsibility for managing the initiative was assumed by the Greek Government on 1 October. In September 2020, following a period of heightened tensions, exacerbated by tight COVID-19-related restrictions on freedom of movement, the very overcrowded Moria camp on Lesbos was destroyed by fires that had been instigated by residents; significant numbers of asylum seekers were then moved to a temporary camp at Mavrovouni, also on Lesbos. In March 2021 the EU extended €250m. in funding to Greece for the construction of new refugee camps on five Aegean islands (Chios, Kos, Leros, Lesbos and Samos). A revised EU-Turkey statement, issued in March 2022, urged continued support for Syrian refugees in Turkey; intensified focus on the situation of Syrian IDPs in Syria; continued assistance to asylum seekers and refugees in Greece, including decent reception conditions on the Greek islands; increased returns to Turkey; the voluntary resettlement of significant numbers of refugees from Turkey into EU member states; and the implementation of swift high-standard asylum procedures and a credible monitoring mechanism. During the period 2016-May 2023 37,560 Syrians were resettled to the EU from Türkiye. It was reported in 2023 that Türkiye was no longer readmitting migrants returned from Greece.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio casee">Under a non-binding Memorandum of Understanding that was concluded in July 2023 between the EU and Tunisia—a favoured point of departure for migrants aiming to reach Italy—the EU was to extend budgetary support to Tunisia, and was to focus investment there on areas that included migration management (with an initial €105m. designated to combating people smuggling, prioritizing the local activities of UNHCR and IOM, and the provision of patrol vehicles and equipment). During two days alone in mid-September some 8,000 migrants who had departed from Tunisia landed on the Italian island of Lampedusa, which lies around 113 km from the Tunisian coast and 205 km from Sicily.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio casee">During 2023 292,985 irregular migrant arrivals in Europe were reported, the majority having landed by boat. Italy received 157,651 seaborne migrants, Greece 41,561, and Spain’s Canary Islands 39,910. UNHCR has supported refugee determination procedures and undertaken protection and resettlement activities in Italy, and assisted the Greek authorities in transferring authorized asylum seekers living in overcrowded, unsanitary and often dangerous conditions in reception camps on the Greek islands to urban accommodation or state-run shelters on the mainland and Crete. In 2022 881,220 first-time asylum seekers—principally from Syria (15% of the total), Afghanistan (12.9%), Venezuela (5.7%), Türkiye (5.6%) and Colombia (4.8%)—applied for international protection in EU member states: the highest total since 2015-16. (Asylum applications from Ukrainians represented only 2.8% of the total, as the majority of Ukrainians sheltering in nearby states had sought temporary protection status.) Some 40% of processed first-instance asylum claims were approved in that year (mostly those from applicants from Syria, Belarus, Ukraine, Eritrea, Yemen and Mali); more than one-half of the approvals were agreed by Germany and France.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="UN-IO.5002" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio eerca">
               <heading>Central Asia</heading>
               <p usage="edio eerca">The Office's priorities in Central Asia have included protection of refugees and asylum seekers; ensuring the compliance of refugee status determination procedures with international standards, while also seeking durable solutions and promoting the self-reliance of refugees; preserving asylum space within mixed migratory flows; and preventing and reducing statelessness.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio eerca">
        All member states of the Commonwealth of Independent States excepting Uzbekistan had acceded by 2024 to the 1951 UN Convention relating to the Status of Refugees. UNHCR has reported that compliance with the 1951 Convention is problematic in the Central Asia region, and that national preoccupations with perceived cross-border threats and domestic security have adversely impacted asylum policy and the protection of refugees. A regional ministerial conference that UNHCR helped to organize in March 2011 adopted the AlmatI Declaration, in which participants determined to establish a regional framework for co-operation in the efficient management of mixed migration flows and refugee issues. The resulting 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-OTHER.SW.1">AlmatI Process on Refugee Protection and International Migration,</xr>
         headquartered in AlmatI, Kazakhstan, was initiated in September 2012. Its core countries are Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Türkiye and Turkmenistan.
      </p>
               <p usage="edio eerca">In 2013 UNHCR supported the Tajik author­ities with the establishment of a modern refugee registration framework, and with revising national citizenship legislation. UNHCR has promoted ways to safeguard Tajikistan’s border management systems.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio eerca">Statelessness in Central Asia largely relates to the situation of people whose nationality was not formally confirmed or who did not actively acquire a new nationality following the termination of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) in 1991.</p>
               <p usage="eerca">UNHCR implemented a series of `Seeds for Solutions’ initiatives in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan during 2014-17, which aimed to address statelessness by registering the stateless population and providing assistance with citizenship determination and acquisition procedures. Legislation aimed at preventing reducing statelessness was developed in those countries during this period. At the end of 2022 the stateless population in Uzbekistan was recorded at 27,389.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio eerca">Following the takeover of Afghanistan in August 2021 by the fundamentalist Taliban organization, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan—which all adjoin Afghanistan—were reported to have increased border security significantly. UNHCR has prioritized promoting legal and policy reforms in Central Asian countries, with the aim of enhancing access, fair asylum procedures, and social protection systems. As at 30 June 2023 13,025 Afghan asylum seekers had fled to Uzbekistan, and 8,164 to Tajikistan.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.5003" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio eerca">
               <heading>Eastern Europe</heading>
               <p usage="ewyb edio eerca">The dissolution of the former USSR led to significant population relocation and displacement, and to a large number of stateless people in Eastern Europe. During 2003-10 more than 600,000 stateless people in the Russian Federation were given citizenship. At the end of 2022 there were 95,195 people registered as stateless in Russia, and 36,233 in Ukraine—where Roma people have reportedly been at heightened risk of statelessness.</p>
               <p usage="eerca">Ethnic Russians represented a majority of the 187,564 people who were registered as stateless in Latvia as at 31 December 2022, and also of the then 68,111 stateless residents of Estonia.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio eerca">UNHCR’s 2024 Regional Refugee Response Plan for the Ukraine situation, issued in February, required US&#8201;$1,100m. to fund operations, in collaboration with 313 partners, in: Bulgaria (accommodating 72,775 Ukrainian refugees under temporary protection at 8 March 2024), Czech Republic (381,400, at 31 January), Estonia (38,020, at 2 March), Hungary (66,135, at 17 March), Latvia (47,616, at 6 March), Lithuania (41,490, at 11 March), Moldova (116,855, at 31 March), Poland (956,635, at 15 December 2023), Romania (77,250, at 10 March 2024), and Slovakia (117,265 at 3 March). In the refugee-receiving countries UNHCR aimed to support the socioeconomic inclusion of refugees (particularly the most vulnerable), to provide protection services, to support access to nutrition, health, education and livelihoods, and to provide cash assistance for essential needs. The Plan was also to assist 55,000 members of host communities. As at mid-March, in total, 5,982,900 Ukrainians were accommodated within Europe (around 4.4m. had temporary protection status) and 503,100 beyond Europe. There were 3,689,000 IDPs in Ukraine at 31 December 2023.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio eerca">On 19 September 2023 Azerbaijan launched a major military offensive (framed as an anti-terrorist operation) aimed at disarming and forcing the removal of Armenian troops positioned in Nagornyi Karabakh. On the following day Azerbaijan claimed a `complete surrender’ by Karabakh Armenian combatants; a ceasefire was declared, and the disarmament of the defeated troops was subsequently organized. The Azerbaijani authorities declared that the rights of local ethnic Armenians (at that time numbering around 120,000) would be upheld. Nevertheless a significant rapid exodus from Nagornyi Karabakh into Armenia was reported: by September nearly 100,500 people were reported to have fled from the enclave. UNHCR teams and partners supported the Armenian authorities in establishing emergency registration and co-ordination mechanisms, and supplied NFIs, including emergency bedding, to incoming Karabakh Armenians.</p>
               <p usage="eerca">UNHCR's activities in Azerbaijan have focused on strengthening the national asylum system and refugee legislation, and offering, in as far as possible, assistance to refugees under its mandate there who do not have a legal right to work. The Office welcomed a commitment by Azerbaijan to offer a health insurance package to people of concern from January 2020. UNHCR has advocated with the Armenian authorities to strengthen the national asylum system to support an ethnic Armenian refugee population—numbering up to 22,000 people at its peak—which, from 2011, had fled to Armenia to escape the Syrian civil war. UNHCR has supported the socioeconomic integration of people of concern in Armenia (including 672 stateless people as at end-2022), and has advocated for that population to be woven into the Armenian action plan aimed at achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The Office estimated that at the end of 2022 the global refugee population of Armenian origin totalled 14,844, and that of Azerbaijani origin was 42,013. UNCHR reported that at 31 December 2022 Azerbaijan was supporting, in total, 658,793 IDPs. </p>
               <!--~ ethnic Iraqis-->
               <p usage="ewyb edio eerca">There were 292,856 IDPs in Georgia at 31 December 2022. UNHCR has supported that country in strengthening and implementing its national legislative framework and action plans relating to populations of concern, and has focused on the local integration of the displaced population. With regard to the separatist territories of Georgia, the Office promotes livelihood opportunities to encourage self-reliance among returned IDPs in Abkhazia, but has no operational access to South Ossetia.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio eerca">UNHCR engages closely with regional consultative processes including the Panel on Migration and Asylum of the EU Eastern Partnership, the Budapest Process and the Prague Process.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1480" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio fea">
               <heading>East Asia and the Pacific</heading>
               <p usage="edio ewyb fea">From late August 2017 a rapid large-scale exodus of Myanma Rohingya towards Bangladesh was prompted by a renewed outbreak of violent insecurity in Rakhine State, Myanmar, that reportedly included—in response to an attack by Rohingya militants against government forces on 25 August—the systematic destruction of villages by both the national security forces and by officially sanctioned vigilante groups. UNHCR declared the crisis a `Level 3’ (severe) emergency. Around three-quarters of the mass outflow of refugees from Myanmar were women and children. Most refugees were accommodated at camps in the south-eastern Cox’s Bazar region, including at the Kutupalong-Balukhali encampment which had been extended in late 2017 and had become the world’s largest refugee settlement. From September 2017 UNHCR undertook successive airlifts of essential NFIs to Cox’s Bazar, including shelter kits, sleeping mats, tarpaulins, solar lamps, mosquito nets, and winter clothing. UNHCR and other humanitarian agencies also co-operated in providing food rations, mobile medical assistance, mass immunization, water, sanitation and hygiene facilities, education, and psychological support, including to survivors of sexual and gender based violence. Cash was distributed by UNHCR to families accommodated at Kutupalong-Balukhali. The Office also provided support to the Bangladeshi Government to develop a refugee data management system, to improve local protection standards, and to construct a new road at Kutupalong. In May 2018 UNHCR, UNDP and the Myanmar Government signed an MOU on preparing the way for future safe refugee returns. In September, however, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights urged the Bangladesh authorities to stall plans to repatriate Rohingya refugees to Myanmar, warning that this would potentially endanger their lives and freedom. From December the Bangladeshi authorities relocated, in phases, successive contingents of Rohingya refugees to the remote and under-resourced Bay of Bengal island of Bhasan Char, to ease overcrowding in Cox’s Bazar; UNHCR provided CRIs and helped to co-ordinate assistance. Following a devastating fire at the Kutupalong-Balukali camp in March 2021, which resulted in at least 15 fatalities and numerous injuries, and the loss of or damage to at least 10,000 shelters, UNHCR, IOM and partner agencies extended critical emergency support, including through the provision of medical supplies to burns patients, urgent first aid, and psychosocial assistance. The Office worked to re-issue refugees’ damaged documentation. A massive fire that broke out in March 2023 at Cox’s Bazar was reported to have destroyed some 2,000 shelters. In early January 2024 UNHCR worked with the Bangladesh authorities and the IOM to support refugees displaced by a further fire in Cox’s Bazar which destroyed some 800 homes. In March UNHCR and partners issued a US&#8201;$852.4m. Joint Response Plan to support Rohingya refugees sheltering in Cox’s Bazar and on Bhasan Char (numbering, respectively, 942,614 and 33,893 at 29 February) and some 346,000 people in host communities over the coming year to access protection services, drinkable water, food, shelter, health care, livelihood opportunities, education, and vocational technical skills training.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio fea">Violent unrest that followed a military coup perpetrated in Myanmar on 1 February 2021 prompted significant new internal displacement. UNHCR required US $95.6m. to fund its assistance operations within Myanmar in 2024, focused on meeting basic needs and on strengthening protection and displacement monitoring. UNHCR reported at 18 March 2024 that there were around 2,811,300 IDPs in Myanmar (including, as at 31 December 2023, 276,612 returned IDPs), and 632,789 stateless people (mainly Rohingya). From February 2021 a new exodus of Myanma refugees was reported, in particular to India and Thailand (hosting, respectively, 78,731 and 91,339 refugees, as at 30 June 2023).</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio fea">At 31 December 2023 some 90,801 verified mainly ethnic Kayin (and also Kayah and Tanintharyi), refugees from Myanmar were sheltering in nine camps in Thailand close to the Thailand-Myanmar border (more than one-third were accommodated at the largest camp, Mae-La). Thailand had not, by 2024, ratified the 1951 Refugee Convention and it had not established highly functioning asylum procedures. Thailand was also, at that time, accommodating 5,213 urban refugees and asylum seekers, and more than 500,000 registered stateless people, who were denied official identity cards and access to state services, and were at increased risk of trafficking. UNHCR has supported stateless residents there with the preparation of citizenship applications. At 29 February 2024 it was reported that there were 187,020 UNHCR-registered refugees and asylum-seekers in Malaysia. Some 164,130 were reported to be from Myanmar, including 108,500 Rohingya and 25,430&#160;of Chin ethnicity. Malaysia has not acceded to the 1951 Refugee Convention and lacks a legal framework for managing asylum cases. UNHCR has worked to improve the protection environment there; from August 2019, however, the Office was denied access to Malaysian immigration holding centres. At 31 December 2022 some 115,169 people in Malaysia were registered as stateless.</p>
               <!--~ Laotian Hmong - considered illegal migrants by Thailand-->
               <p usage="edio fea">
        UNHCR’s Beijing Office provides registration, refugee status determination and practical support to refugees and asylum seekers in the Chinese capital. Although China has acceded to the 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and to its 1967 Protocol, it has not as yet enacted comprehensive national legislation in support of their implementation. UNHCR has advocated for the accession of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region to the 1951 Refugees Convention. A `unified screening mechanism’ for the assessment of claims to protection from 
        <i>refoulement</i>
         was initiated by the Hong Kong SAR authorities in March 2014. In December 2022 legislation was adopted in Hong Kong that enabled the expulsion of asylum seekers who were appealing rejected applications. As at March 2024 there were around 14,700 asylum seekers in the territory. 
      </p>
               <p usage="fea">Some 26,811 people were registered as stateless in Viet Nam at 31 December 2022.</p>
               <p usage="edio fea">
        UNHCR endeavours to facilitate safe passage to the Republic of Korea (South Korea) for people who have fled from the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (North Korea) to other countries in the region. During 2022 67 North Koreans were reported to have defected. Some 192 voluntary repatriations from South Korea to North Korea were reported during 2010-mid-2022, and two forced repatriations (in November 2019). China routinely repatriates North Korean defectors, designating them as economic migrants, despite this being regarded as 
        <i>refoulement</i>
         under international law and returned defectors being subjected to severe punishments by the North Korean state. In March 2014 a UN Commission of Inquiry censured China over this policy and urged that all collaboration with the North Korean security agencies in identifying and forcibly returning North Koreans should cease. China is, meanwhile, estimated to accommodate around 30,000-50,000 legally resident North Korean guest workers. It was reported in October 2023 that up to 600 North Korean defectors (mainly women) had recently been forcibly repatriated from China. Up to 2,000 North Koreans were reported to remain in detention in China and liable to refoulement.
      </p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio fea">At 12 January 2024 UNHCR reported that 145,300 people were displaced in the Mindanao region of the Philippines. In December 2022 the Philippines acceded to the 1961 Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness. At that time 118,120 people in the Philippines (including persons of Indonesian and Sama Bajau descent) were believed by the Office to be either stateless or at risk of statelessness.</p>
               <p usage="edio fea">With a view to deterring increasing mixed inflows of migrants and asylum seekers travelling by sea (so-called irregular maritime arrivals—IMAs) Australia in recent years adopted increasingly strict asylum legislation, policies and processes. Bilateral agreements in 2012 to transfer IMAs to camps in Nauru and Papua New Guinea (PNG) were criticized by UNHCR, which expressed its concern at the adequacy of protection standards for the detained transferees. UNHCR has advocated for non-discriminatory asylum practices, for broader domestic understanding of asylum and refugee issues in Australia and New Zealand, and for alternatives to the use of detention. Australia’s arrangement with PNG ended on 31 December 2021. In March 2022 Australia accepted an offer by New Zealand to resettle up to 450 refugees; this was to be implemented over a three-year period. Eligible migrants were to be screened by UNHCR.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio fea">The Bali Process on People Smuggling, Trafficking in Persons and Related Transnational Crime (Bali Process), launched in February 2002, with 45 participating states, comprises a series of UNHCR-supported initiatives that aim to raise awareness of people smuggling throughout the Asia-Pacific region; to promote the enactment of national legislation aimed at combating this; to address its root causes; to improve intelligence sharing and enhance co-operation among law enforcement and border agencies; and to support states in adopting best practices in asylum management. The eighth ministerial conference of the Bali Process, convened in February 2023, in Adelaide, Australia, concurrently with the third Bali Process Government and Business Forum, issued the 2023 Adelaide Strategy for Cooperation, focused on the following areas: law enforcement; stakeholder engagement; information sharing and public information campaigns; irregular migration and related transnational crime; border management; victim protection and migration management; returns and reintegration; and co-ordination and support.</p>
               <p usage="edio fea">A Regional Co-operation Framework (RCF), adopted in March 2011, aimed to strengthen regional collaboration in safeguarding the protection of refugees while simultaneously countering irregular population movements. In March 2016 a Bali Process ministerial review conference determined to establish an emergency response mechanism. This was activated for the first time in 2017 in the context of the mass influx into Bangladesh of Rohingya refugees from Myanmar.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.5000" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio sasia">
               <heading>South Asia</heading>
               <p usage="ewyb edio sasia">In May 2012 a regional stakeholders’ conference on Afghanistan endorsed a `Solutions Strategy for Afghan Refugees’ (SSAR), negotiated during 2011 by UNHCR, Afghanistan, Iran and Pakistan, and based on the `pillars’ of voluntary repatriation, sustainable reintegration in Afghanistan, and support for refugee hosting communities.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio sasia">On 16 August 2021, in view of the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, UNHCR issued a formal non-return advisory, aimed at preventing forced returns (including of failed asylum seekers) to that country. Nevertheless, Iran reportedly deported more than 1m. undocumented Afghans throughout that year. By 30 June 2023 1,619,145 Afghan asylum seekers were reported to have fled their homeland since August 2021 (1m. to Iran, 600,000 to Pakistan, 13,020 to Uzbekistan, and 6,125 to Tajikistan). At 30 November 2023 5,305,978 Afghans abroad were of concern to UNHCR, of whom 3.4m. were in Iran, 1.9m. in Pakistan, 13,025 in Uzbekistan, and 8,164 in Tajikistan. UNHCR-assisted Afghan refugees in Iran (totalling around 750,000) had been issued with official `Amayesh’ identification cards, and Pakistan-based Afghan refugees with official biometric Proof of Registration (PoR) cards. In October 2023 the Pakistan authorities ordered all undocumented foreigners (believed to number 1.7m., many of whom were Afghani) to leave the country by 1 November (later extended to 29 February 2024). During the period 15 September 2023-7 March 2024 531,400 Afghans repatriated from Pakistan (including forced repatriations). The cumulative number of UNHCR-facilitated voluntary repatriations of Afghan refugees from Iran and Pakistan during March 2002-March 2024 totalled around 6.2m. Where possible UNHCR has provided returnees with a cash grant, equivalent to up to US&#8201;$375 in 2024, to support transportation and to assist initial social integration, offered counselling on health, legal and social matters, and monitored their situation. Particular focus has been placed upon the situation of returnee women and on the prevention of gender-based violence, and on encouraging the return of professional workers, such as doctors and teachers. As at March 2024 3.3m. people remained displaced within Afghanistan. </p>
               <p>An inter-agency Afghanistan Regional Refugee Response Plan being led by UNHCR during 2024 required funding of US&#8201;$638.8m., and aimed to support 5.4m. Afghan refugees, 1.6m. other vulnerable Afghans, and 2.5m. members of host communities, in Iran and Pakistan. UNHCR has worked to promote the socioeconomic inclusion of Afghan refugees, while pursuing durable solutions.</p>
               <p-alternates default="SASIA" type="ALTERNATES">
                    <p usage="sasia">From late August 2017 a rapid large-scale exodus of Myanma Rohingya towards Bangladesh was prompted by a renewed outbreak of violent insecurity in Rakhine State, Myanmar, that reportedly included—in response to an attack by Rohingya militants against government forces on 25 August—the systematic destruction of villages by both the national security forces and by officially sanctioned vigilante groups. UNHCR declared the crisis a `Level 3’ (severe) emergency. Around three-quarters of the mass outflow of refugees from Myanmar were women and children. Most refugees were accommodated in 33 camps in the south-eastern Cox’s Bazar region, including at the Kutupalong-Balukhali encampment which had been extended in late 2017 and had become the world’s largest refugee settlement. From September 2017 UNHCR undertook successive airlifts of essential NFIs to Cox’s Bazar, including shelter kits, sleeping mats, tarpaulins, solar lamps, mosquito nets, and winter clothing. UNHCR and other humanitarian agencies also co-operated in providing food rations, mobile medical assistance, mass immunization, water, sanitation and hygiene facilities, education, and psychological support, including to survivors of sexual and gender based violence. Cash was distributed by UNHCR to families accommodated at Kutupalong-Balukhali. The Office also provided support to the Bangladeshi Government to develop a refugee data management system, to improve local protection standards, and to construct a new road at Kutupalong. In May 2018 UNHCR, UNDP and the Myanmar Government signed an MOU on preparing the way for future safe refugee returns. In September, however, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights urged the Bangladesh authorities to stall plans to repatriate Rohingya refugees to Myanmar, warning that this would potentially endanger their lives and freedom. Under a joint refugee verification exercise implemented by UNHCR and the Bangladesh Government from mid-2018, verified Rohingya refugees aged 13 years and above were issued with identity cards. New restrictions on the Bangladesh camp-based refugees (including a curfew and the prohibition of mobile telephones) and a heightened military presence at their camps were reported following the murder of a local Bangladeshi man in August 2019. In early April 2020, in response to the COVID-19 emergency, the Cox’s Bazar area was placed under `complete lockdown’ by the Bangladeshi authorities. From early June monsoon-related landslides, flooding and heavy winds further adversely impacted local living conditions. From December the Bangladeshi authorities relocated, in phases, successive contingents of Rohingya refugees to the remote and under-resourced Bay of Bengal island of Bhasan Char, to ease overcrowding in Cox’s Bazar; UNHCR provided CRIs and helped to co-ordinate assistance. Following a devastating fire at the Kutupalong-Balukali camp in March 2021, which resulted in at least 15 fatalities and numerous injuries, and the loss of or damage to at least 10,000 shelters, UNHCR, IOM and partner agencies provided critical emergency support, including through the provision of medical supplies to burns patients, urgent first aid, and psychosocial assistance. The Office worked to re-issue refugees’ damaged documentation. A massive fire that broke out in March 2023 at Cox’s Bazar was reported to have destroyed some 2,000 shelters. In January 2024 UNHCR worked with the Bangladesh authorities and the IOM to support refugees displaced by a further fire in Cox’s Bazar which destroyed some 800 homes. In March UNHCR and partners issued a US&#8201;$852.4m. Joint Response Plan to support Rohingya refugees sheltering in Cox’s Bazar and on Bhasan Char (numbering, respectively, 942,614 and 33,893 at 29 February) and some 346,000 people in host communities over the coming year to access protection services, drinkable water, food, shelter, health care, livelihood opportunities, education, and vocational technical skills training.</p>
                    <p usage="ewyb edio">
          At 29 February 2024 UNHCR was assisting 976,507 Rohingya refugees in Bangladesh, as well as Bangladeshi communities. (See under 
          <i>East Asia and the Pacific</i>
           for further details.)
        </p>
               </p-alternates>
               <p usage="sasia">Violent unrest that followed a military coup perpetrated in Myanmar on 1 February 2021 prompted a renewed outflow of Myanma refugees, including to northeastern Mizoram, India. At 31 January 2024 India was hosting a UNHCR-assisted refugee population numbering 46,630.</p>
               <p usage="sasia">In May 2009 the Sri Lankan Government terminated military operations against Tamil separatists, marking the end of a conflict that had in previous years caused significant population displacement. The largest camp for IDPs, Menik Farm, was closed in September 2012. From 2013 UNHCR shifted its priorities in Sri Lanka towards reintegration support, including the promotion of self-reliance for returnees. UNHCR advocates for the rights of all persons of concern, including by promoting civil documentation and land and property rights, and works towards resettlement solutions where appropriate. At 31 December 2022 there were still 8,540 registered IDPs of concern to UNHCR in Sri Lanka.</p>
               <!--~ Bhutanese Lhotshampasas; statelessness in Nepal-->
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.5001" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio mena">
               <heading>Middle East and North Africa</heading>
               <p usage="ewyb edio mena">
        In 2024 the Syrian refugee population was the largest under UNHCR’s mandate. A Regional Refugee and Resilience Plan (`3RP’) for 2024, requiring some US&#8201;$5,536m. in total funding, was being co-led by UNHCR and UNDP , and aimed to assist Syrians who had fled to neighbouring countries (at 14 March 2024 a total of 5,034,875 were registered with UNHCR), as well as stateless persons, and 3.5m. members of host communities. Of the total number of Syrian refugees, 279,585 were encamped, and the remainder in urban, peri-urban or rural situations. The 3RP is aligned with national emergency response plans. Some 3,136,353 Syrian refugees were registered in Türkiye (the highest number of refugees being hosted by any single country), while some 784,884 were registered in Lebanon, 639,552 in Jordan, 273,258 in Iraq, and 155,825 in Egypt. A further 45,003 exiled Syrians in North Africa were of concern to UNHCR (at 31 December 2022). UNHCR’s activities in the host countries have included providing refugees with shelter, cash grants and access to health and education; protection monitoring and outreach; field assessments; exploring resettlement opportunities, especially for the most vulnerable people of concern; and supporting the authorities and host communities with a view to mitigating the impact of refugee influxes. In May 2023 UNHCR, UNICEF and the WFP issued the results of a 10th annual joint 
        <publ-name>Vulnerability Assessment of Syrian Refugees in Lebanon survey (VASyr)</publ-name>
        , which, based on an analysis of more than 5,000 refugee households in mid-2022, reported that 93% of Syrian refugee families in Lebanon were borrowing to cover the costs of essential food (which had risen by 332% since mid-2021) and non-food items; 46% were borrowing to pay for accommodation; and 35% to cover medication costs. Only 17% of Syrian refugees in Lebanon held legal residency; and 22% of refugee girls aged 15-19 were married (68% of these were not attending schools). The UNHCR presence in Jordan supports the management of the overcrowded Za'atri refugee camp, in the north of the country. At 31 July 2023 Za’atri and the nearby town of Mafraq were accommodating 169,043 registered Syrian refugees. The majority of Syrian refugees in Jordan were, however, based outside camps. UNHCR has targeted protection and support interventions at Syrian refugees living, often in substandard conditions, outside camps in Iraq (accounting for around three-fifths of all Syrian refugees in that country), and at their host communities; has provided outreach support to Syrian refugees in urban situations; and has monitored the provision of essential assistance and services in refugee camps (the largest of which, a complex near Dahuk, Kurdistan, was accommodating 78,475 Syrian refugees at 29 February 2024). From January 2016 the Turkish author­ities permitted many Syrian refugees registered in that country to apply for work permits. Increasing numbers of Afghans, Iranians and Iraqis were also reported to have applied for asylum in Türkiye in recent years. UNHCR’s activities in Türkiye have focused on enhancing the protection environment; registration and profiling; status determination; facilitating resettlement to third countries; community support; and livelihoods assistance and activities to enable self-reliance. Health, education, socioeconomic and municipal infrastructure support for host communities and refugees in Türkiye is assisted by a joint World Bank-EU Syrians Under Temporary Protection initiative, financed by a €6,000m. Facility for Refugees in Türkiye, which was established in 2015. During the period 2016-May 2023 37,560 Syrians were resettled to the European Union, and during 2014-May 2023 some 21,568 Syrians were transferred from Türkiye to third countries (predominantly to Canada, the USA, the UK and Norway).
      </p>
               <p>Within Syria UNHCR is responsible for the provision of support to IDPs (numbering more than 6.8m. at February 2024) in its leadership areas of CCCM and Shelter, as well as providing NFIs, protection, financial assistance, health, community services, and registration and counselling services. UNHCR has also assisted Syrian IDPs (of whom some 2m. were living in informal settlements and camps) through cash-for-shelter activities. From 2019, in response to the increased flow of arrivals from Islamic State’s former `caliphate’ to al-Hol camp, in al-Hasakah Governorate, eastern Syria, UNHCR and partners established 24-hour response teams to identify and provide urgent assistance to the most vulnerable cases (in particular to unaccompanied children and people requiring immediate medical assistance). They also provided additional large reception tents, more than 8,000 smaller tents, core relief and winter assistance items, cooking areas, and child friendly spaces and schools. In January 2024 the overcrowded al-Hol and Rawj camps, and related facilities were reported to be accommodating more than 48,500 individuals, of whom around 31,600 were reported to be foreign nationals, and a majority children. Syria also accommodates a significant population of stateless people, totalling 160,000 at 31 December 2022.</p>
               <p usage="mena">UNHCR provided emergency assistance to Syria and Türkiye—including through the provision of shelter items and delivery of NFIs and winterization assistance—following the earthquakes that devastated parts of those countries in February 2023. Under broader inter-agency appeals, UNHCR requested US&#8201;$150m. for Türkiye, and $52m. for Syria.</p>
               <p id="IO-UNHCR.1493" usage="ewyb edio mena">UNHCR appealed for US&#8201;$354.4m. to support its operations in conflict-affected Yemen during 2024, where (in February) 21.6m. people were reported to require humanitarian assistance, of whom more than 4.5m. were internally displaced. Yemen was also (as at 30 October 2023) hosting 71,658 refugees, of whom 45,769 were Somalis. Refugees and asylum seekers were mainly accommodated in Aden and in Sana’a (Amanat al-Asimah Governorate). The Office has continued to advocate for resettlement opportunities for the most vulnerable refugees; to extend cash-based interventions; to undertake shelter programmes; to extend legal help to asylum seekers, IDPs, returnees and refugees; to strengthen community resilience; to facilitate durable solutions for IDP returnees; to support the implementation of Yemen’s national displacement policy; and to address continuing incoming migrant flows from the Horn of Africa. Some 38,627 Yemenis were sheltering abroad at 31 December 2022.</p>
               <p usage="edio ewyb mena">UNHCR requested some US&#8201;$204m. to fund its operations in Iraq during 2024. At 31 December 2023 there were around 1.1m. Iraqi IDPs (in protracted displacement following the 2014-17 Islamic State uprising), of whom around 180,000 were being assisted by UNHCR in 26 formal camps (25 of the camps were in Kurdistan, and one in Ninewa). A process of camp closures had been initiated in August 2019. UNHCR has supported voluntary returns, and advocated with authorities to resolve cases of barred returns and to prevent coerced returns to areas that remain unsafe (owing to the presence of militias, or to contamination by explosive remnants of war and improvised explosive devices, or to the absence of critical infrastructure and destruction of property). There were 4.8m. Iraqi returnees at the end of 2023. Iraq was also hosting 273,258 Syrian refugees (mainly Syrian Kurds). Some 97% of the Syrian refugees are located in Kurdistan, in nine camps and in urban and peri-urban areas. Meanwhile, at 31 December 2022 288,261 refugees of Iraqi origin were residing in other countries.</p>
               <!--IOM Iraq Displacement Tracking Matrix (DTM)-->
               <!--~ dubai, jordan bidoon-->
               <p usage="mena">UNHCR has monitored the Iraqi refugee population in Jordan (which numbered 55,292 at 29 February 2024), to ensure that their protection needs are met, given that recent large inflows of Syrian refugees have placed additional strain on local infrastructures and services.</p>
               <p usage="edio mena">
        At the end of 2022 Kuwait was hosting 92,000 people of concern to UNHCR, mainly (stateless) 
        <i>bidoun</i>
        , as well as Iraqis and Palestinians. Some 70,000 people were registered as stateless in Saudi Arabia at that time.
      </p>
               <p usage="mena">In May 2012 a regional stakeholders’ conference on Afghanistan endorsed a `Solutions Strategy for Afghan Refugees’ (SSAR), negotiated during 2011 by UNHCR, Afghanistan, Iran and Pakistan, and based on the `pillars’ of voluntary repatriation, sustainable reintegration in Afghanistan, and support for refugee hosting communities On 16 August 2021, in view of the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, UNHCR issued a formal non-return advisory, aimed at preventing forced returns (including of failed asylum seekers) to that country. Nevertheless, Iran reportedly deported more than 1m. undocumented Afghans throughout that year. The cumulative number of UNHCR-facilitated voluntary repatriations of Afghan refugees from Iran and Pakistan during March 2002-March 2024 totalled around 6.2m. At 30 November 2023 3.5m. Afghan people of concern to UNHCR were in Iran. Most UNHCR-assisted Afghan refugees in Iran (totalling around 750,000) had been issued with official `Amayesh’ identification cards. In 2024 UNHCR was leading an inter-agency response plan that required funding of US&#8201;$638.8m. and aimed to support 3.2m. Afghan refugees, 1.6m. other vulnerable Afghans, and 2.5m. members of host communities, in Iran and Pakistan. UNHCR has worked to promote the socioeconomic inclusion of Afghan refugees, while pursuing durable solutions.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio mena">Libya is both a destination country for economic migrants (who may find informal employment there), and also a principal country of transit for mixed migration flows of refugees and economic migrants attempting to travel to European destinations (the `Central Mediterranean Route’). Libya, in return for financial support from Italy and the EU, agreed in 2017 to intercept vessels carrying migrants and to transfer the passengers to Libyan detention centres. UNHCR maintains a monitoring presence at 12 Mediterranean embarkation points in Libya. At 1 March 2024 there were 61,353 registered refugees and asylum seekers in that country, of whom 35,414 were from Sudan, 11,905 from Syria, and 8,901 from Eritrea. There were also (at 31 August 2023) 125,802 IDPs, 705,426 IDP returnees, and (as at February 2023) 705,746 migrants (of at least 44 nationalities, and including around 5,000 who were being held in detention centres across Libya—to whom the Office has delivered NFIs and hygiene kits). The Office extends international protection services there to unaccompanied and separated children, sick or elderly people, women at risk of trafficking, and to other vulnerable individuals. It works within Libya as well as in neighbouring countries to provide durable solutions and find credible alternatives for refugees and asylum seekers, including resettlement to third countries. UNHCR and IOM jointly lead the UN component of an AU-EU-UN Tripartite Taskforce on the Situation of Migrants and Refugees in Libya (operational since early 2022). Meeting in March 2023 the Taskforce determined to strengthen efforts to support the development of non-discriminatory legal and policy frameworks for migrants and refugees in that country, and urged the Libyan authorities to end arbitrary detention of migrants and refugees. The Taskforce agreed to enhance support for voluntary humanitarian returns from Libya.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio mena">UNHCR reported at 1 March 2024 that nearly 68% of refugees and migrants in Libya had either no formal education (29%) or just primary education (nearly 39%); and only 14% had graduated from vocational training or higher education. Some 79% had no occupation in their country of origin.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio">Under a non-binding Memorandum of Understanding that was concluded in July 2023 between the EU and Tunisia, the EU was to focus investment there on areas that included migration management—prioritizing the local activities of UNHCR and IOM, and the provision of patrol vehicles and equipment.</p>
               <p usage="mena">Under a non-binding Memorandum of Understanding that was concluded in July 2023 between the EU and Tunisia—a favoured point of departure for migrants aiming to reach Italy—the EU was to extend budgetary support to Tunisia, and was to focus investment there on areas that included migration management (with an initial €105m. designated to combating people smuggling, prioritizing the local activities of UNHCR and IOM, and the provision of patrol vehicles and equipment). During two days alone in mid-September some 8,000 migrants who had departed from Tunisia landed on the small Italian island of Lampedusa, which lies around 113 km from the Tunisian coast and 205 km from Sicily.</p>
               <p usage="mena">In March 2016 an EU-Turkey accord entered into effect that provided for failed asylum seekers, and migrants arriving post-20 March in the EU via Greece, who did not apply for asylum in Greece, to be returned to Turkey. Among concessions offered to Turkey in return, EU member states were to resettle one Turkey-based Syrian refugee for every migrant returned to that country from Greece. In accordance with the new agreement (to which UNHCR was not a party) former refugee reception centres were reclassified as detention facilities. In view of UNHCR’s opposition to mandatory detention, it suspended certain of its activities at the former centres, including the provision of transport. UNHCR personnel continued, however, to provide life-saving assistance at coastal locations, to undertake protection monitoring duties, to identify incomers with specific assistance needs, to offer counselling to new arrivals, and to provide information on rights and procedures. During the period 2016-May 2023 37,560 Syrians were resettled to the EU from Türkiye. It was reported in 2023 that Türkiye was no longer readmitting migrants returned from Greece. Of processed first-instance asylum applications made in the EU in 2022, claims by Syrians (and Yemenis) were reportedly among those most likely to be accepted.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio mena">Given the lack of progress in achieving a settlement agreement for Western Sahara, UNHCR co-ordinates humanitarian assistance for around 90,000 Sahrawi refugees accommodated, in a protracted situation ongoing since 1975, in five camps in the Tindouf area of Algeria. The refugees are heavily dependent on external assistance as there are few opportunities for income generation in the remote camps. UNHCR provides them with protection and basic relief items. A new Sahrawi Refugee Response Plan, for the period 2024-25, was launched by UNHCR and other UN agencies in November 2023.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1495" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio ass">
               <heading>Sub-Saharan Africa</heading>
               <p>UNHCR has provided assistance to refugees and IDPs in many parts of the continent where civil conflict, violations of human rights, drought, famine or environmental de­gradation have forced people to flee their home regions. The majority of African refugees and returnees are located in countries that are themselves suffering major economic problems, and often complex, multidimensional emergencies, and are thus unable to provide the basic requirements of the uprooted people. At the end of 2022 there were an estimated 39.7m. people of concern to UNHCR in Africa.</p>
               <p usage="ass">In August 2017 the French, German, Italian and Spanish Governments determined to support Chad and Niger with strengthening their border control capabilities, with a view to stemming the influx of migrants from sub-Saharan Africa into Libya—which is both a destination country for economic migrants (who may find informal employment there) and also a principal country of transit for mixed migration flows of refugees and economic migrants attempting to travel to European destinations.</p>
               <!--~ 2004 Dialogue on Voluntary &#173;Repatriation and Sustainable Reintegration in Africa-->
               <p>Persistent severe food insecurity in southern areas of Somalia has exacerbated the longstanding humanitarian crisis in that country. In 2024 UNHCR was attempting to find durable solutions for a Somali IDP population totalling 2,778,453 (at 5 February), of whom 2m. were in south-central Somalia. Furthermore, Somalia was hosting 17,957 registered refugees and 20,506 asylum seekers. UNHCR promotes the assisted voluntary return of IDPs and Somali refugees to their communities of origin, or to other selected integration areas, and the implementation of community-based projects to benefit both returnees and their host communities. Returnees are provided with an assistance package comprising a cash grant in addition to some NFIs, and vouchers for—where available—limited food assistance. During December 2014-31 January 2024 UNHCR assisted 93,721 Somali repatriations. During March 2015-31 January 2024 some 42,984 spontaneous Somali returns from Yemen were recorded (including 951 assisted spontaneous returns since January 2020). Some 923 Somali voluntary repatriations from Kenya were reported during January 2020-January 2024. The Office has continued to provide protection and supply basic services to populations of concern; to extend technical support to the federal authorities on the development of a national policy framework for people of concern; to advocate for equal access to justice; foster local integration, community empowerment, economic inclusion and self-reliance; promote legislation on citizenship; and to provide protection from sexual and gender-based violence and exploitation.</p>
               <p>At 31 July 2023 there was an estimated total Somali refugee population of 743,958 sheltering in nearby countries, principally Kenya (hosting 324,130) and Ethiopia (290,073). Meanwhile UNHCR has assisted the Kenyan authorities with strengthening the response capacity of national and local institutions and with finding durable solutions for refugees. In February 2017 the High Court of Kenya overturned a previous decision of the Kenyan Government—deeming it to be discriminatory—to close the Dadaab complex of camps in north-eastern Garissa and forcibly to repatriate Somali refugees. (The Kenyan authorities suspected that the complex was harbouring al-Shabaab terrorists.) In March 2021, once again accusing elements of the refugee population of having connections to al-Shabaab, the Kenyan authorities gave UNHCR an ultimatum to draw up a plan to guide the repatriation of all the Somali refugees from Dadaab and from Kakuma (q.v.). A repatriation roadmap, providing for voluntary safe returns, departures to third countries and some alternative remain options, was formulated by UNHCR and Kenyan Government representatives and concluded by the Kenyan President and the High Commissioner meeting in Nairobi at the end of April. As at 29 February 2024 some 352,920 Somali refugees were still accommodated under UNHCR protection in Garissa (at Dadaab and also at the Fafi complex)—representing the majority of the total of 364,432 refugees there. At that time a further 24,592 Somali refugees were living in and near Nairobi, the Kenyan capital, and 38,249 Somali refugees were accommodated at the Kakuma camp and nearby smaller Kalobeyei settlement (in Turkana, north-western Kenya). From 2012 the Turkana area had received a sharply increased inflow of new refugees, predominantly originating in South Sudan; the outbreak of violent conflict in that country from mid-December 2013, in particular, had prompted an escalation in new arrivals. As at 29 February 2024 there were an estimated 166,883 South Sudanese refugees at the Kakuma camp and Kalobeyei settlement. A further 8,554 South Sudanese refugees were residing in and near Nairobi. At that time Kenya was also hosting some 35,062 refugees from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and 23,203 from Ethiopia.</p>
               <p>At 29 February 2024 972,835 registered refugees and asylum seekers were sheltering in Ethiopia, including 420,502 from South Sudan. UNHCR has supported the Ethiopian authorities in implementing the advanced BIMS biometric refugee registration system. Long-term persistent intercommunal violence, the devastating full-scale civil conflict in and beyond the country’s northern Tigray region during late 2020-22, and episodes of drought and flooding have led to a large Ethiopian IDP population; as at 31 December 2023 3,459,881 registered IDPs and 2,530,101 returning IDPs required humanitarian support. UNHCR’s operations in Ethiopia have included the provision of shelter, protection, education, health, food and nutrition assistance, facilitating access to energy, and fostering community self-reliance. During 2021-25 UNHCR was implementing a protection strategy in Ethiopia that aimed to support the high proportion of children aged 0-14 years of age in the refugee population (accounting for 58% in 2021, including nearly 42,000 highly vulnerable unaccompanied and separated children), and youth aged 15-24 years.</p>
               <!--~ 1.xi.21 UNHCR estimated that 7,600 refugees are still missing. Some have likely moved to the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa-->
               <p>Insecurity within South Sudan, including persistent inter-ethnic clashes, has caused significant population displacement. South Sudan acceded to the 1951 UN Convention relating to the Status of Refugees in December 2018, and at 31 December 2023 was accommodating—mainly in the Upper Nile and Unity regions—381,224 registered refugees, of whom the majority (357,458) were from Sudan. There were also (at 31 January 2024) 2,027,331 registered South Sudanese IDPs. At the end of February 2,282,066 South Sudanese refugees were reported to be sheltering in neighbouring countries, principally in Uganda (931,666), Sudan (696,246) and Ethiopia (420,502). UNHCR has supported the construction of new camps and the expansion of existing ones in the countries that have received significant inflows of South Sudanese refugees. A formal UNHCR non-return advisory remained in place for South Sudan in 2024, aimed at preventing forced repatriations, pending an improvement in local conditions (relating to human rights, security and rule of law). At the same time, however, the Office was offering support to refugees who had returned independently.</p>
               <p>Following the eruption of civil conflict in Sudan in mid-April 2023, UNHCR mobilized emergency response teams and began to assist national authorities in nearby countries with the reception, registration and monitoring of refugee and returnee arrivals, the development of transit centres and construction of communal shelters. An initial Interagency Regional Refugee Response Plan for the Sudanese situation that was issued in May 2023 appealed for US&#8201;$445m. to provide essential protection, shelter, water, food, NFIs and health care; during that year humanitarian agencies prioritized the establishment of systems and procedures for delivering assistance. In February 2024, launching the 2024 Regional Refugee Response Plan, UNHCR emphasized that the Sudan situation remained a large-scale and complex crisis. The Plan, which aimed to enhance the resilience of refugee and host communities, as well as meeting their immediate needs, appealed for $1,400m. to support a projected 2,684,663m. people, the majority of whom were refugees. Within Sudan, some 6,467,700 people were reported to be displaced (as at 12 March 2024), while during April-December 2023 195,511 Sudan-hosted refugees had spontaneously relocated to safer areas of the country. Outside Sudan there were, as at mid-March 2024 approximately 492,364 newly arrived refugee returnees (primarily people who had recently repatriated to South Sudan), and 1,260,913 newly arrived Sudanese asylum seekers and refugees. Of the latter, Chad was hosting some 564,686, South Sudan 126,884, Ethiopia 32,271, and the Central African Republic (CAR) 22,627. At that time South Sudan was also hosting 4,018 refugees and asylum seekers of other nationalities who had previously been sheltering in Sudan; a further 10,427 such people of concern were accommodated in Ethiopia. Meanwhile, in March UNHCR’s staff in Egypt were managing the registration of 367,059 new arrivals from Sudan.</p>
               <p usage="edio ewyb ass">At 29 February 2024 522,231 people were displaced within the CAR (mainly sheltering informally with families), and there were 499,430 IDP returnees in that country. The registered CAR refugee population in neighbouring countries at that time totalled 755,604, including 354,725 in Cameroon, 212,211 in the DRC, and 134,015 in Chad.</p>
               <!--~ LRA displacement-->
               <p usage="ewyb edio ass">Since the 1990s the Great Lakes region of central Africa has experienced massive population displacement, causing immense operational challenges and demands on the resources of international humanitarian and relief agencies. From late 1998 substantial numbers of DRC nationals fled escalating civil conflict to neighbouring countries (mainly Tanzania and Zambia) or were displaced within the DRC. In view of the conclusion, in December 2002, of a peace agreement, UNHCR planned for eventual mass refugee returns. However, owing to incessant rebel activity, insecurity continued to prevail in north-eastern areas of the DRC, resulting in further population displacements; by 2024 it was estimated that the DRC had 6.2m. IDPs, many of whom were reportedly living with host families or in spontaneous settlements, mainly in the eastern provinces of Ituri, North Kivu and South Kivu. UNHCR was working to provide protection assistance and long-term solutions for affected populations, and also to strengthen the resilience and self-reliance of IDPs and host communities. At 31 January 2024 there were 1,063,576 DRC refugees in neighbouring countries, of whom nearly 508,495 were accommodated in Uganda, 89,260 in Tanzania, 86,701 in Burundi, and 79,684 in Rwanda.</p>
               <p usage="edio ass">Meanwhile, at 31 January 2024, the DRC itself was hosting 523,426 refugees and asylum seekers, principally from the CAR and Rwanda.</p>
               <p usage="edio ass">From April 2015 violent unrest in Burundi prompted a new wave of refugees seeking shelter in surrounding countries. A tripartite meeting of UNHCR with government officials of Burundi and Tanzania was convened in September 2017 to address the voluntary repatriation of refugees given the more stable environment in Burundi. Further political and social unrest ensued, however, and at 29 February 2024 the Burundian regional refugee population still totalled 260,175.</p>
               <p id="IO-UN.1503" usage="edio ass">At December 2022 there were an estimated 931,076 people of concern to UNHCR living in Côte d'Ivoire who were stateless or of undetermined nationality. This was attributed to longstanding legislation preventing the descendants of immigrants from acquiring Ivorian citizenship; unregistered births; and the destruction of civil registries and loss of documentation during the 2002 and 2010-11 civil conflicts in that country, rendering it impossible for many people to prove their citizenship. UNHCR has worked to support the modernization of Côte d'Ivoire’s civil registration processes, facilitating the issuance of birth certificates, passports and refugee identity cards. UNHCR commended the adoption by the Ivorian authorities in September 2020 of a formal statelessness determination procedure (Africa’s first). During 2011-May 2023 UNHCR assisted 210,173 returns to Côte d'Ivoire.</p>
               <!--~ refugee status for Liberians terminated in 2012-->
               <p usage="ewyb edio ass">At 30 June 2023 UNHCR reported that there were 3,485,827 IDPs in Nigeria (particularly in the northeastern states of Adamawa, Borno and Yobe), owing to great instability caused by the longstanding militant Islamist insurgency in that region. Meanwhile, as at 29 February 2024, some 200,423 Nigerian refugees were sheltering in Niger, 121,172 in Cameroon, and 21,381 in Chad. UNHCR has focused on the protection requirements of refugees under its mandate in Nigeria, and has aimed to strengthen its presence and enhance its capacity in that country, as well as to provide training to national agencies on protection and CCCM. As at 29 February 2024 UNHCR and the Nigerian authorities had registered an influx into Nigerian border areas (Akwa-Ibom, Anambra, Benue, Cross River, Enugu, and Taraba states) of 64,990 asylum seekers fleeing violent insecurity in English-speaking areas of Cameroon. UNHCR has provided protection, settlement management and shelter/NFIs, and has assisted the local Nigerian authorities with the issuance of birth registration certificates for children born to refugees. Cameroon itself, at 29 February , had an internally displaced population totalling 2,224,529, and 659,000 IDP returnees. Cameroon was also hosting 478,907 refugees, principally from the CAR, at that time. A tripartite agreement establishing a refugee repatriation framework was concluded by UNHCR, Nigeria and Cameroon in early 2021. A significant deterioration of the security situation in Burkina Faso from 2019 prompted a massive increase in the number of Burkinabè IDPs, to 2,968,478 by 29 February 2024. UNHCR provided protection monitoring and assistance to the newly displaced. There were also at that time 215,928 IDPs in Chad, 335,277 in Niger, and (at 31 December 2023) 354,739 in Mali. As at the end of 2023 there were 889,093 returnees in the region.</p>
               <!--~ Historical Angola info & southern Africa general para removed 21.ix.18-->
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1521" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio">
               <heading>Co-operation</heading>
               <p usage="ewyb edio">UNHCR works closely with more than 900 partners, including other UN agencies, as well as governmental bodies, intergovernmental organizations and NGOs. Within the UN system UNHCR co-operates, principally, with the World Food Programme in the distribution of food aid, with UNICEF and WHO in the provision of family welfare and child immunization programmes, with OCHA in the delivery of emergency humanitarian relief, with the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, and with UNDP in development-related activities and the preparation of guidelines for the continuum of emergency assistance to development programmes. UNHCR also has close working relationships with the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies and IOM. Annual UNHCR-NGO consultations are normally convened.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1523" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="edio">
               <heading>Training</heading>
               <p id="IO-UN.1524" usage="edio">UNHCR organizes training programmes and workshops to enhance the capabilities of field workers and non-UNHCR staff, in the following areas: the identification and registration of refugees; people-orientated planning; resettlement procedures and policies; emergency response and management; security awareness; stress management; and the dissemination of information through the electronic media.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1525" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Finance</heading>
          <p id="IO-UN.1526" usage="ewyb edio">The regular budget of the UN provides limited finance for UNHCR's administrative expenditure (US&#8201;$47.2m. in 2024). The majority of UNHCR's programme expenditure is funded by voluntary contributions; around 87% of this is from governments and the EU, 9% from private sector sources, and 3% from other intergovernmental organizations as well as from pooled funding mechanisms. UNHCR also accepts in-kind contributions, such as medicines, tents and vehicles. UNHCR's initial projected funding requirements for 2024 (prior to issuing supplementary appeals) amounted to $10,622m. to support 130.8m. people of concern. The total included $2,149m. for its operations in East and Horn of Africa and the Great Lakes; $1,011m. for West and Central Africa; $492m. for Southern Africa; $2,342m. for the Middle East and North Africa; $1,466m. for Europe; $993m. for Asia and the Pacific; and $835m. for the Americas. Some $160m. was allocated to the Office’s headquarters.</p>
          <p usage="casee eerca">The regular budget of the UN provides limited finance for UNHCR's administrative expenditure (US&#8201;$47.2m. in 2024). The majority of UNHCR's programme expenditure is funded by voluntary contributions; around 87% of this is from governments and the EU, 9% from private sector sources, and 3% from other intergovernmental organizations as well as from pooled funding mechanisms. UNHCR also accepts in-kind contributions, such as medicines, tents and vehicles. UNHCR's initial projected funding requirements for 2024 totalled $10,622m., including $1,466m. for operations in Europe.</p>
          <p usage="sasia fea">The regular budget of the UN provides limited finance for UNHCR's administrative expenditure (US&#8201;$47.2m. in 2024). The majority of UNHCR's programme expenditure is funded by voluntary contributions; around 87% of this is from governments and the EU, 9% from private sector sources, and 3% from other intergovernmental organizations as well as from pooled funding mechanisms. UNHCR also accepts in-kind contributions, such as medicines, tents and vehicles. UNHCR's initial projected funding requirements for 2024 totalled $10,622m. The proposed budget for Asia and the Pacific in that year was $993m.</p>
          <p usage="sacac">The regular budget of the UN provides limited finance for UNHCR's administrative expenditure (US&#8201;$47.2m. in 2024). The majority of UNHCR's programme expenditure is funded by voluntary contributions; around 87% of this is from governments and the EU, 9% from private sector sources, and 3% from other intergovernmental organizations as well as from pooled funding mechanisms. UNHCR also accepts in-kind contributions, such as medicines, tents and vehicles. UNHCR's initial projected funding requirements for 2024 totalled $10,622m. The proposed budget for the Americas in that year was $835m.</p>
          <p usage="ass">The regular budget of the UN provides limited finance for UNHCR's administrative expenditure (US&#8201;$47.2m. in 2024). The majority of UNHCR's programme expenditure is funded by voluntary contributions; around 87% of this is from governments and the EU, 9% from private sector sources, and 3% from other intergovernmental organizations as well as from pooled funding mechanisms. UNHCR also accepts in-kind contributions, such as medicines, tents and vehicles. UNHCR's initial projected funding requirements for 2024 amounted to $10,622m. The total included $2,149m. for its operations in East and Horn of Africa and the Great Lakes; $1,011m. for West and Central Africa, and $492m. for Southern Africa.</p>
          <p usage="mena">The regular budget of the UN provides limited finance for UNHCR's administrative expenditure (US&#8201;$47.2m. in 2024). The majority of UNHCR's programme expenditure is funded by voluntary contributions; around 87% of this is from governments and the EU, 9% from private sector sources, and 3% from other intergovernmental organizations as well as from pooled funding mechanisms. UNHCR also accepts in-kind contributions, such as medicines, tents and vehicles. UNHCR's initial projected funding requirements for 2024 totalled $10,622m. The proposed budget for the Middle East and North Africa in that year was $2,342m.</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1527" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Publications</heading>
          <publ-list>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Global Appeal</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">annually</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Global Report</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">annually</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Global Trends</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">annually</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Refworld</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>The State of the World's Refugees</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">every 2 years</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>UNHCR Statistical Yearbook</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">annually</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>UNHCR Handbook for Emergencies</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
          </publ-list>
          <p id="IO-UN.1528">Country reports, analyses, handbooks.</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UNHCR.1000" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Statistics</heading>
          <!--~ Global Trends - every June, at 31 Dec. $43.2 regular budget 2021-->
          <table-block id="IO-UN.1466" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="TABLE-BLOCKREF" type="OTHER" usage="ewyb edio">
               <table-heading>POPULATIONS OF CONCERN TO UNHCR BY REGION</table-heading>
               <heading-note>’000 persons, at 31 December 2022, provisional figures</heading-note>
               <table pgwide="Y" style="WITH-RULES">
                    <tgroup cols="7">
                         <colspec colwidth="5.6cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.6cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.6cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.6cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC0" colwidth="3.60cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC1" colwidth="3.60cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.6cm" />
                         <thead>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Refugees
                <endnoteref idref="IO-UN.1468" ref-symbol="*" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Asylum seekers</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Returned refugees and IDPs
                <endnoteref idref="IO-UN.1469" ref-symbol="†" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                IDPs
                <endnoteref idref="IO-UN.1468" ref-symbol="*" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Stateless persons</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Others of concern
                <endnoteref idref="IO-UN.1470" ref-symbol="‡" />
                                   </entry>
                              </row>
                         </thead>
                         <tbody>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Africa</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">7,545.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">600.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">4,924.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">25,303.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,035.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">282.3</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Asia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">12,271.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">569.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,122.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">18,289.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2,841.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">407.6</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Europe</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">8,728.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">955.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">6,220.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">537.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">524.9</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Latin America</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">292.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,281.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">7,415.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">4,794.9</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">North America/Caribbean</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">507.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,937.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">4.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.3</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Oceania</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">66.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">94.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">91.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">8.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.5</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">
                                        <b>Total</b>
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">29,413.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">5,438.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">6,047.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">57,321.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">4,428.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">6,014.4</entry>
                              </row>
                         </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
               </table>
               <endnote id="IO-UN.1468" ref-symbol="*">Includes persons in refugee-like or IDP-like situations</endnote>
               <endnote id="IO-UN.1469" ref-symbol="†">Refugees and IDPs who returned to their place of origin during 2022</endnote>
               <endnote id="IO-UN.1470" ref-symbol="‡">Non-categorized persons of concern to UNHCR.</endnote>
               <sources>
                    <source-head>Source</source-head>
                    <source-info>
          UNHCR, 
          <i> Global Trends, Forced Displacement in 2022</i>
                    </source-info>
               </sources>
          </table-block>
          <table-block id="IO-UN.1471" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="TABLE-BLOCKREF" type="OTHER" usage="edio ewyb">
               <table-heading>
        POPULATIONS OF CONCERN TO UNHCR BY ­COUNTRY
        <endnoteref idref="IO-UN.1472" ref-symbol="*" />
               </table-heading>
               <heading-note>'000 persons, at 31 December 2022, provisional figures</heading-note>
               <table pgwide="Y" style="WITH-RULES">
                    <tgroup cols="7">
                         <colspec colwidth="7cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.25cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.25cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.25cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC1" colwidth="3.25cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC0" colwidth="3.25cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.25cm" />
                         <thead>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Refugees
                <endnoteref idref="IO-UN.1473" ref-symbol="†" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Asylum seekers</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Returned refugees and IDPs
                <endnoteref idref="IO-UN.1473" ref-symbol="†" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                IDPs
                <endnoteref idref="IO-UN.1473" ref-symbol="†" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Stateless persons</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Others of concern
                <endnoteref idref="IO-UN.1473" ref-symbol="†" />
                                   </entry>
                              </row>
                         </thead>
                         <tbody>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                                        <b>Africa</b>
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Algeria</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">99.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Burkina Faso</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">34.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,882.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Burundi</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">84.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">4.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">21.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">8.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.4</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Cameroon</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">473.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">9.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">68.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">989.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.1</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">CAR</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">11.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">410.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">515.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Chad</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">592.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">5.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">381.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">101.6</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Congo, Democratic Rep.</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">520.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,228.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">5,541.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Côte d'Ivoire</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">5.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">21.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">931.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.1</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Egypt</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">294.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">63.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Ethiopia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">879.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,880.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2,730.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.5</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Kenya</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">504.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">69.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">16.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">87.2</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Libya</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">42.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">22.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">161.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Mali</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">60.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">65.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">379.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Mauritania</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">101.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">5.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Mozambique</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">5.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">25.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">270.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,028.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.6</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Niger</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">255.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">46.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">376.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">37.6</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Nigeria</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">91.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">159.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3,286.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Rwanda</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">120.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">9.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">6.5</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Somalia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">16.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">18.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">610.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2,967.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">South Africa</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">66.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">84.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">South Sudan</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">308.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">151.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,474.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">10.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.4</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Sudan</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,097.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">31.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">12.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3,552.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3.7</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Tanzania</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">206.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">28.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">12.2</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Uganda</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,463.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">32.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">67.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                                        <b>Asia</b>
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Afghanistan</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">52.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">242.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3,254.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">88.9</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Bangladesh</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">952.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">952.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">India</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">242.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">15.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">21.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Iran</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3,425.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Iraq</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">273.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">10.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">30.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,168.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">47.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.0</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Jordan</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">697.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">45.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.4</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Lebanon</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">818.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">8.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">23.6</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Malaysia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">134.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">47.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">115.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">56.0</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Myanmar</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">325.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,504.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">630.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Pakistan</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,743.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">38.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">98.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">37.8</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Philippines</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">118.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">98.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">128.2</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Syrian Arab Republic</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">13.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">5.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">306.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">6,781.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">160.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">27.0</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Thailand</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">94.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">574.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.3</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Türkiye (Turkey)</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3,568.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">272.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Yemen</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">77.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">13.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">4,523.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                                        <b>Australasia</b>
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Australia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">54.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">90.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">8.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.5</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Papua New Guinea</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">10.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">90.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                                        <b>Europe</b>
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Austria</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">258.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">53.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Azerbaijan</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">6.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">658.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Belgium</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">151.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">41.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.9</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Bulgaria</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">176.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">11.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Czech Rep.</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">435.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.5</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">France</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">612.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">75.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.7</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Georgia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">27.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">292.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Germany</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2,075.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">261.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">29.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Greece</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">160.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">22.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">4.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3.6</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Italy</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">296.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">80.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Latvia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">39.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">187.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Moldova</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">105.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Netherlands</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">218.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">31.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">4.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Poland</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">971.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.3</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Romania</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">105.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Russian Fed.</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,277.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">95.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Serbia/Kosovo</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">26.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">210.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3.5</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Spain</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">317.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">134.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">6.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">6.8</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Sweden</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">277.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">14.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">42.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Switzerland</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">182.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">14.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.1</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Ukraine</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">5,914.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">36.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">497.3</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">United Kingdom</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">329.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">167.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">5.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.3</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                                        <b>Latin America/Caribbean</b>
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Argentina</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">4.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">11.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">165.6</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Brazil</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">67.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">206.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">264.0</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Chile</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">11.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">438.8</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Colombia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">22.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">6,834.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2,976.4</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Costa Rica</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">14.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">239.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">16.6</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Curaçao</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">14.0</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Dominican Rep.</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">113.7</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Ecuador</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">60.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">9.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">495.3</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Guatemala</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">146.9</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Honduras</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">247.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">193.0</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Mexico</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">95.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">210.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">262.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">504.6</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Panama</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">8.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">395.0</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Peru</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">6.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">537.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">977.2</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Venezuela</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">29.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3,206.6</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                                        <b>North America</b>
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Canada</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">140.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">113.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">4.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">USA</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">363.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,798.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                         </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
               </table>
               <endnote id="IO-UN.1472" ref-symbol="*">The list includes only those countries having 100,000 or more persons of concern to UNHCR</endnote>
               <endnote id="IO-UN.1473" ref-symbol="†">See table above for definitions</endnote>
               <endnote id="IO-UN.UNHCR.999" ref-symbol="‡">Excluding Hong Kong SAR</endnote>
               <sources>
                    <source-head>Source</source-head>
                    <source-info>
          UNHCR, 
          <i>Global Trends, Forced Displacement in 2022</i>
                    </source-info>
               </sources>
          </table-block>
          <table-block id="IO-UN.1476" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="TABLE-BLOCKREF" type="OTHER" usage="ewyb edio">
               <table-heading>ORIGIN OF MAJOR POPULATIONS OF CONCERN TO UNHCR </table-heading>
               <heading-note>'000 persons, at 31 December 2022, provisional figures</heading-note>
               <table style="WITH-RULES">
                    <!--rc 11.07.2023 rearranged entries according to descending order. you might not be able to see track changes because of the movement.-->
                    <tgroup cols="2">
                         <colspec colwidth="15cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="5cm" />
                         <thead>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Origin</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Population of concern to UNHCR</entry>
                              </row>
                         </thead>
                         <tbody>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Syrian Arab Republic</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">13,795.3</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Ukraine</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">12,180.1</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Venezuela</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">9,977.1</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Afghanistan</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">9,543.5</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Congo, Democratic Republic</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">7,853.0</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Colombia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">7,649.7</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Ethiopia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">4,885.8</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Yemen</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">4,595.2</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Somalia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">4,511.3</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Sudan</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">4,490.7</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">South Sudan</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3,926.5</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Nigeria</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3,920.7</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Stateless</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3,189.8</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Myanmar</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3,132.2</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Burkina Faso</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,947.9</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Iraq</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,745.2</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Central African Republic</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,690.9</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Mozambique</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,308.0</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Cameroon</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,227.3</entry>
                              </row>
                         </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
               </table>
               <sources>
                    <source-head>Source</source-head>
                    <source-info>
          UNHCR, 
          <i> Global Trends, Forced Displacement in 2022</i>
                    </source-info>
               </sources>
          </table-block>
          <table-block id="IO-CASEE.282" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="TABLE-BLOCKREF" type="OTHER" usage="casee">
               <table-heading>POPULATIONS OF CONCERN TO UNHCR IN CENTRAL AND SOUTH-EASTERN EUROPE</table-heading>
               <heading-note>
        '000 persons, at 31 December 2022, provisional figures
        <endnoteref idref="IO-UN.UNHCR.032" ref-symbol="*" />
               </heading-note>
               <table pgwide="Y" style="WITH-RULES">
                    <tgroup cols="7">
                         <colspec colwidth="6cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.5cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.5cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.25cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC2" colwidth="3.75cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC0" colwidth="3.50cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.5cm" />
                         <thead>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Host Country</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Refugees
                <endnoteref idref="IO-UN.CASEE.UNHCR.0012" ref-symbol="†" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Asylum seekers</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Returned refugees and IDPs
                <endnoteref idref="IO-CASEE.283" ref-symbol="‡" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                IDPs
                <endnoteref idref="IO-UN.CASEE.UNHCR.0012" ref-symbol="†" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Stateless persons</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Others of concern
                <endnoteref idref="IO-CASEE.284" ref-symbol="§" />
                                   </entry>
                              </row>
                         </thead>
                         <tbody>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Bosnia and Herzegovina</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">96.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.3</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Bulgaria</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">176.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">11.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Croatia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">20.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Czech Rep.</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">435.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.5</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Estonia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">40.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">68.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Greece</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">160.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">22.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">4.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3.6</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Latvia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">39.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">187.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Montenegro</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">32.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.5</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Serbia/Kosovo</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">26.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">210.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3.5</entry>
                              </row>
                         </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
               </table>
               <endnote id="IO-UN.UNHCR.032" ref-symbol="*">Countries with fewer than 10,000 persons of concern to UNHCR are not listed</endnote>
               <endnote id="IO-UN.CASEE.UNHCR.0012" ref-symbol="†">Includes persons in refugee-like and IDP-like situations</endnote>
               <endnote id="IO-CASEE.283" ref-symbol="‡">Refugees and IDPs who returned to their place of origin during 2022</endnote>
               <endnote id="IO-CASEE.284" ref-symbol="§">Non-categorized persons of concern to UNHCR</endnote>
               <sources>
                    <source-head>Source</source-head>
                    <source-info>
          UNHCR, 
          <i> Global Trends, Forced Displacement in 2022</i>
                    </source-info>
               </sources>
          </table-block>
          <table-block id="IO-SASIA.UNHCR.734" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="TABLE-BLOCKREF" type="OTHER" usage="sasia">
               <table-heading>PERSONS OF CONCERN TO UNHCR IN SOUTH ASIA</table-heading>
               <heading-note>
        ’000 persons, at 31 December 2022, provisional figures
        <endnoteref idref="IO-SASIA.UNHCR.735" ref-symbol="*" />
               </heading-note>
               <table pgwide="Y" style="WITH-RULES">
                    <tgroup cols="7">
                         <colspec colwidth="5cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="4.5cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.5cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.5cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC6" colwidth="3.50cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC1" colwidth="3.50cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.5cm" />
                         <thead>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Host country</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Refugees
                <endnoteref idref="IO-UN.SASIA.UNHCR.001" ref-symbol="†" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Asylum seekers</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Returned refugees and IDPs</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                IDPs
                <endnoteref idref="IO-UN.SASIA.UNHCR.001" ref-symbol="†" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Stateless persons</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Others of concern
                <endnoteref idref="IO-SASIA.UNHCR.736" ref-symbol="‡" />
                                   </entry>
                              </row>
                         </thead>
                         <tbody>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Afghanistan</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">52.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">242.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3,254.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">88.9</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">
                Bangladesh
                <endnoteref idref="IO-SASIA.UNHCR.002" ref-symbol="§" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">952.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">952.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">India</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">242.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">15.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">21.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Nepal</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">19.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.6</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Pakistan</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,743.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">38.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">98.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">37.8</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Sri Lanka</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">8.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                         </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
               </table>
               <endnote id="IO-SASIA.UNHCR.735" ref-symbol="*">Figures are provided mostly by governments, based on their own records and methods of estimations. Countries with fewer than 10,000 persons of concern to UNHCR are not listed</endnote>
               <endnote id="IO-UN.SASIA.UNHCR.001" ref-symbol="†">Includes persons in refugee-like and IDP-like situations who receive advocacy but not material support from UNHCR</endnote>
               <endnote id="IO-SASIA.UNHCR.736" ref-symbol="‡">Non-categorized persons of concern to UNHCR</endnote>
               <endnote id="IO-SASIA.UNHCR.002" ref-symbol="§">The figures reflect the stateless population displaced from Myanmar from August 2017, who are also sheltering as refugees</endnote>
               <sources>
                    <source-head>Source</source-head>
                    <source-info>
          UNHCR, 
          <i> Global Trends, Forced Displacement in 2022</i>
                    </source-info>
               </sources>
          </table-block>
          <table-block id="IO-SACAC.264" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="TABLE-BLOCKREF" type="OTHER" usage="sacac">
               <table-heading>PERSONS OF CONCERN TO UNHCR IN LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN</table-heading>
               <heading-note>
        ’000 persons, at 31 December 2022, provisional figures
        <endnoteref idref="IO-SACAC.UNHCR.265" ref-symbol="*" />
               </heading-note>
               <table pgwide="Y" style="WITH-RULES">
                    <tgroup cols="7">
                         <colspec colwidth="6cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.5cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.5cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC2" colwidth="3.50cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC3" colwidth="3.50cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC0" colwidth="3.50cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.5cm" />
                         <thead>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Host Country</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Refugees
                <endnoteref idref="IO-UN.SACAC.UNHCR.001" ref-symbol="†" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Asylum seekers</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Returned refugees and IDPs</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                IDPs
                <endnoteref idref="IO-UN.SACAC.UNHCR.001" ref-symbol="†" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Stateless persons</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Others of concern
                <endnoteref idref="IO-SACAC.UNHCR.266" ref-symbol="‡" />
                                   </entry>
                              </row>
                         </thead>
                         <tbody>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Argentina</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">4.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">11.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">165.6</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Aruba</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">17.0</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Belize</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">9.5</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Bolivia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">13.5</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Brazil</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">67.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">206.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">264.0</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Chile</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">11.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">438.8</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Colombia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">22.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">6,834.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2,976.4</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Costa Rica</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">14.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">239.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">16.6</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Dominican Rep.</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">113.7</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Ecuador</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">60.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">9.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">495.3</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">El Salvador</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">71.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">6.2</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Guatemala</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">146.9</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Guyana</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">19.6</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Honduras</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">247.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">193.0</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Mexico</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">95.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">210.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">262.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">504.5</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Panama</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">8.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">395.0</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Peru</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">6.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">537.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">977.2</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Trinidad and Tobago</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">20.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">15.0</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Uruguay</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">16.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">23.0</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Venezuela</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">29.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3,206.6</entry>
                              </row>
                         </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
               </table>
               <endnote id="IO-SACAC.UNHCR.265" ref-symbol="*">Countries with fewer than 10,000 persons of concern to UNHCR are not listed</endnote>
               <endnote id="IO-UN.SACAC.UNHCR.001" ref-symbol="†">Includes persons in refugee-like and IDP-like situations</endnote>
               <endnote id="IO-SACAC.UNHCR.266" ref-symbol="‡">Includes recent returnees and stateless people. </endnote>
               <sources>
                    <source-head>Source</source-head>
                    <source-info>
          UNHCR, 
          <i>Global Trends, Forced Displacement in 2022</i>
                    </source-info>
               </sources>
          </table-block>
          <table-block id="UNHCR.UN.IO.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="TABLE-BLOCKREF" type="OTHER" usage="ass">
               <table-heading>POPULATIONS OF CONCERN TO UNHCR BY SUB-REGION</table-heading>
               <!--rc 15.07.2020 the grouping of regions has been changed in the report.-->
               <heading-note>’000 persons, at 31 December 2022, provisional figures</heading-note>
               <table pgwide="Y" style="WITH-RULES">
                    <tgroup cols="7">
                         <colspec colwidth="5.6cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.6cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.6cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.6cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC0" colwidth="3.60cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC1" colwidth="3.60cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.6cm" />
                         <thead>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Refugees
                <endnoteref idref="IO-UN.1468.1" ref-symbol="*" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Asylum seekers</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Returned refugees and IDPs
                <endnoteref idref="IO-UN.1469.1" ref-symbol="†" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                IDPs
                <endnoteref idref="IO-UN.1468.1" ref-symbol="*" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Stateless persons</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Others of concern
                <endnoteref idref="IO-UN.1470.1" ref-symbol="‡" />
                                   </entry>
                              </row>
                         </thead>
                         <tbody>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">East Africa, Horn of Africa and the Great Lakes</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">4,701.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">198.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2,678.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">10,733.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">104.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">112.0</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Southern Africa</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">773.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">200.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,498.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">6,596.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">29.5</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">West and Central Africa</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,563.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">70.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">725.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">7,812.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">931.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">140.7</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">
                                        <b>Total</b>
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">7,037.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">469.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">4,902.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">25,142.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,035.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">282.2</entry>
                              </row>
                         </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
               </table>
               <endnote id="IO-UN.1468.1" ref-symbol="*">Includes persons recognized as refugees under international law, and also people receiving temporary protection and assistance outside their country but who have not been formally recognized as refugees</endnote>
               <endnote id="IO-UN.1469.1" ref-symbol="†">Refugees and IDPs who returned to their place of origin during 2022</endnote>
               <endnote id="IO-UN.1470.1" ref-symbol="‡">Non-categorized persons of concern to UNHCR</endnote>
               <sources>
                    <source-head>Source</source-head>
                    <source-info>
          UNHCR, 
          <i> Global Trends, Forced Displacement in 2022</i>
                    </source-info>
               </sources>
          </table-block>
          <table-block id="IO-UN.1476.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="TABLE-BLOCKREF" type="OTHER" usage="ass">
               <table-heading>MAJOR POPULATIONS OF CONCERN TO UNHCR ORIGINATING IN SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA</table-heading>
               <heading-note>'000 persons, at 31 December 2021, provisional figures</heading-note>
               <table style="WITH-RULES">
                    <tgroup cols="2">
                         <colspec colwidth="15cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="5cm" />
                         <thead>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Origin</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Population of concern to UNHCR</entry>
                              </row>
                         </thead>
                         <tbody>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Congo, Democratic Republic</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">7,853.0</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Ethiopia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">4,885.8</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Somalia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">4,511.3</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Sudan</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">4,490.7</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">South Sudan</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3,926.5</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Nigeria</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3,920.7</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Burkina Faso</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,947.9</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">CAR</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,690.9</entry>
                              </row>
                         </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
               </table>
               <sources>
                    <source-head>Source</source-head>
                    <source-info>
          UNHCR, 
          <i> Global Trends, Forced Displacement in 2022</i>
                    </source-info>
               </sources>
          </table-block>
          <table-block id="IO-ASS.UNHCR.311" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="TABLE-BLOCKREF" type="OTHER" usage="ass">
               <table-heading>
        PERSONS OF CONCERN TO UNHCR IN AFRICA SOUTH OF THE SAHARA
        <endnoteref idref="IO-ASS.312" ref-symbol="*" />
               </table-heading>
               <heading-note>’000 persons, at 31 December 2022, provisional figures</heading-note>
               <table pgwide="Y" style="WITH-RULES">
                    <tgroup cols="7">
                         <colspec colwidth="6cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.5cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.5cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.5cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC4" colwidth="3.50cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC0" colwidth="3.50cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.5cm" />
                         <thead>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Host Country</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Refugees
                <endnoteref idref="IO-UN.UNHCR.ASS.345" ref-symbol="†" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Asylum seekers</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Returned refugees and IDPs</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">IDPs</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Stateless persons</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Others of concern
                <endnoteref idref="IO-ASS.313" ref-symbol="‡" />
                                   </entry>
                              </row>
                         </thead>
                         <tbody>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Angola</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">25.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">30.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Burkina Faso</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">34.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,882.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Burundi</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">84.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">4.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">21.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">8.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.4</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Cameroon</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">473.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">9.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">68.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">989.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.1</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">CAR</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">11.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">410.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">515.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Chad</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">592.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">5.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">381.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">101.6</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Congo, Democratic Rep.</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">520.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,228.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">5,541.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Congo, Rep.</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">41.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">18.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">26.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">10.3</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Côte d'Ivoire</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">5.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">21.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">931.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.1</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Djibouti</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">20.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">9.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Ethiopia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">879.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,880.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2,730.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.5</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Ghana</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">8.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Kenya</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">504.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">69.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">16.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">87.2</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Liberia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Malawi</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">35.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">21.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.1</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Mali</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">60.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">65.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">379.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Mauritania</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">101.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">5.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Mozambique</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">5.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">25.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">270.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,028.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.6</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Niger</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">255.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">46.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">376.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">37.6</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Nigeria</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">91.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">159.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3,286.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Rwanda</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">120.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">9.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">6.5</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Senegal</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">11.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Somalia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">16.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">18.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">610.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2,967.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">South Africa</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">66.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">84.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">South Sudan</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">308.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">151.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,474.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">10.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.4</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Sudan</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,097.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">31.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">12.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3,552.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3.7</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Tanzania</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">206.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">28.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">12.2</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Uganda</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,463.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">32.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">67.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Zambia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">61.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">17.2</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Zimbabwe</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">10.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">11.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.9</entry>
                              </row>
                         </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
               </table>
               <endnote id="IO-ASS.312" ref-symbol="*">Figures are provided mostly by governments, based on their own records and methods of estimations. Countries with fewer than 10,000 persons of concern to UNHCR are not listed</endnote>
               <endnote id="IO-UN.UNHCR.ASS.345" ref-symbol="†">Includes persons in refugee-like and IDP-like situations</endnote>
               <endnote id="IO-ASS.313" ref-symbol="‡">Non-categorized persons of concern to UNHCR</endnote>
               <sources>
                    <source-head>Source</source-head>
                    <source-info>
          UNHCR, 
          <i> Global Trends, Forced Displacement in 2022</i>
                    </source-info>
               </sources>
          </table-block>
          <table-block id="IO-EERCA.319" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="TABLE-BLOCKREF" type="OTHER" usage="eerca">
               <table-heading>PERSONS OF CONCERN TO UNHCR IN EASTERN EUROPE, RUSSIA AND CENTRAL ASIA</table-heading>
               <heading-note>
        ’000 persons, at 31 December 2022, provisional figures
        <endnoteref idref="IO-EERCA.320" ref-symbol="*" />
               </heading-note>
               <table pgwide="Y" style="WITH-RULES">
                    <tgroup cols="6">
                         <colspec colwidth="6cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.5cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.5cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.5cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC8" colwidth="3.50cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC1" colwidth="3.50cm" />
                         <thead>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Host country</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Refugees
                <endnoteref idref="UN.UNHCR.EERCA.1" ref-symbol="†" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Asylum seekers</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Returned refugees and IDPs</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                IDPs
                <endnoteref idref="UN.UNHCR.EERCA.1" ref-symbol="†" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Stateless persons</entry>
                              </row>
                         </thead>
                         <tbody>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Armenia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">34.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.7</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Azerbaijan</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">6.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">658.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3.6</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Georgia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">27.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">292.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.5</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Russian Federation</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,277.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">95.2</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Tajikistan</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">8.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">5.4</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">
                Ukraine
                <endnoteref idref="UN.UNHCR.EERCA.3" ref-symbol="‡" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">5,914.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">36.2</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Uzbekistan</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">13.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">27.4</entry>
                              </row>
                         </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
               </table>
               <endnote id="IO-EERCA.320" ref-symbol="*">Figures are provided mostly by governments, based on their own records and methods of estimation. Countries with fewer than 10,000 persons of concern to the UNHCR are not listed</endnote>
               <endnote id="UN.UNHCR.EERCA.1" ref-symbol="†">Includes people in refugee-like or IDP-like situations</endnote>
               <endnote id="UN.UNHCR.EERCA.3" ref-symbol="‡"> An additional 497,343 non-displaced people affected by the conflict were of concern to UNHCR in 2022</endnote>
               <sources>
                    <source-head>Source</source-head>
                    <source-info>
          UNHCR, 
          <i> Global Trends, Forced Displacement in 2022</i>
                    </source-info>
               </sources>
          </table-block>
          <table-block id="IO-MENA.311" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="TABLE-BLOCKREF" type="OTHER" usage="mena">
               <table-heading>
        PERSONS OF CONCERN TO UNHCR IN THE MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
        <endnoteref idref="IO-MENA.312" ref-symbol="*" />
               </table-heading>
               <heading-note>’000 persons, at 31 December 2022, provisional figures</heading-note>
               <table pgwide="Y" style="WITH-RULES">
                    <tgroup cols="7">
                         <colspec colwidth="6cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.5cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.5cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.5cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC5" colwidth="3.50cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC0" colwidth="3.50cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC1" colwidth="3.50cm" />
                         <thead>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Host Country</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Refugees</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Asylum seekers</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Recently returned refugees and IDPs</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">IDPs</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Stateless persons</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Other persons of concern</entry>
                              </row>
                         </thead>
                         <tbody>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Algeria</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">99.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Cyprus</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">29.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">36.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Egypt</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">294.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">63.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Iran</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3,425.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Iraq</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">273.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">10.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">30.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,168.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">47.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.0</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Israel</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">25.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">41.6</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Jordan</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">697.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">45.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.4</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Kuwait</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.7</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">92.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Lebanon</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">818.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">8.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">23.6</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Libya</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">42.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">22.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">161.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Saudi Arabia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">70.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Syrian Arab Republic</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">13.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">5.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">306.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">6,781.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">160.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">27.0</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Türkiye (Turkey)</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3,568.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">272.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Yemen</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">77.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">13.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">4,523.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                              </row>
                         </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
               </table>
               <endnote id="IO-MENA.312" ref-symbol="*">
        The table shows only those countries where the total number of persons of concern to UNHCR amounted to more than 10,000. The figures are provided mostly by governments, based on their own methods of estimation. The data do not include 5.8m. Palestinian refugees who came under the care of 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-MENA.360">UNRWA</xr>
               </endnote>
               <sources>
                    <source-head>Source</source-head>
                    <source-info>
          UNHCR, 
          <i> Global Trends, Forced Displacement in 2022</i>
                    </source-info>
               </sources>
          </table-block>
          <table-block id="UNHCR.UN.IO.2" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="TABLE-BLOCKREF" type="OTHER" usage="fea">
               <table-heading>POPULATIONS OF CONCERN TO UNHCR IN ASIA AND OCEANIA</table-heading>
               <heading-note>’000 persons, at 31 December 2022, provisional figures</heading-note>
               <table pgwide="Y" style="WITH-RULES">
                    <tgroup cols="7">
                         <colspec colwidth="5.6cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.6cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.6cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.6cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC0" colwidth="3.60cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC1" colwidth="3.60cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.6cm" />
                         <thead>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER" />
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Refugees
                <endnoteref idref="IO-UN.1468.2" ref-symbol="*" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Asylum seekers</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Recently returned refugees and IDPs</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                IDPs
                <endnoteref idref="IO-UN.1468.2" ref-symbol="*" />
                                   </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Stateless persons</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Others of concern
                <endnoteref idref="IO-UN.1469.2" ref-symbol="†" />
                                   </entry>
                              </row>
                         </thead>
                         <tbody>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Asia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">12,271.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">569.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,122.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">18,289.8 </entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2,841.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">407.6</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Oceania</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">66.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">94.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">91.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">8.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.5</entry>
                              </row>
                         </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
               </table>
               <endnote id="IO-UN.1468.2" ref-symbol="*">Includes persons recognized as refugees under international law, and also people receiving temporary protection and assistance outside their country but who have not been formally recognized as refugees</endnote>
               <endnote id="IO-UN.1469.2" ref-symbol="†">Non-categorized persons of concern to UNHCR</endnote>
               <sources>
                    <source-head>Source</source-head>
                    <source-info>
          UNHCR, 
          <i> Global Trends, Forced Displacement in 2022</i>
                    </source-info>
               </sources>
          </table-block>
          <table-block id="IO-FEA.300" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="TABLE-BLOCKREF" type="OTHER" usage="fea">
               <table-heading>PERSONS OF CONCERN TO UNHCR IN THE FAR EAST AND AUSTRALASIA</table-heading>
               <heading-note>
        ’000 persons, at 31 December 2022, provisional figures
        <endnoteref idref="IO-FEA.301" ref-symbol="*" />
               </heading-note>
               <table pgwide="Y" style="WITH-RULES">
                    <tgroup cols="7">
                         <colspec colwidth="6.5cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.4cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.4cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.3cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC7" colwidth="3.30cm" />
                         <colspec colname="COLSPEC0" colwidth="3.30cm" />
                         <colspec colwidth="3.4cm" />
                         <thead>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Host country</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Refugees</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Asylum seekers</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Recently returned refugees and IDPs</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">IDPs</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Stateless persons</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                Others of concern
                <endnoteref idref="IO-FEA.302" ref-symbol="†" />
                                   </entry>
                              </row>
                         </thead>
                         <tbody>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Australia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">54.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">90.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">8.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.5</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER" valign="top">Brunei Darussalam</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">20.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Cambodia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">75.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Indonesia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">9.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">2.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Japan</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">17.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">12.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Korea, Rep.</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">16.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Malaysia</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">134.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">47.4</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">115.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">56.0</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Myanmar</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">325.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">1,504.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">630.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Papua New Guinea</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">10.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">3.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">90.6</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.0</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.1</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Philippines</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">118.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">98.1</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.3</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">128.2</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Thailand</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">94.5</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.9</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">574.2</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">0.3</entry>
                              </row>
                              <row>
                                   <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Viet Nam</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">26.8</entry>
                                   <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">—</entry>
                              </row>
                         </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
               </table>
               <endnote id="IO-FEA.301" ref-symbol="*">Figures are provided mostly by governments, based on their own records and methods of estimations. Countries with fewer than 10,000 persons of concern to UNHCR are not listed</endnote>
               <endnote id="IO-FEA.302" ref-symbol="†">Non-categorized persons of concern to UNHCR</endnote>
               <sources>
                    <source-head>Source</source-head>
                    <source-info>
          UNHCR, 
          <i> Global Trends, Forced Displacement in 2022</i>
                    </source-info>
               </sources>
          </table-block>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.1" id-root="io-un.unhcr" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="edio">
          <heading>Convention relating to the Status of Refugees</heading>
          <heading-note>28 July 1951</heading-note>
          <legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>PREAMBLE</heading>
                    <gen-list>
                         <item>
                              <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.3">The High Contracting Parties</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.4">Considering that the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights approved on 10 December 1948 by the General Assembly have affirmed the principle that human beings shall enjoy fundamental rights and freedoms without discrimination,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.5">Considering that the United Nations has, on various occasions, manifested its profound concern for refugees and endeavoured to assure refugees the widest possible exercise of these fundamental rights and freedoms,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.6">Considering that it is desirable to revise and consolidate previous international agreements relating to the status of refugees and to extend the scope of and protection accorded by such instruments by means of a new agreement,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.7">Considering that the grant of asylum may place unduly heavy burdens on certain countries, and that a satisfactory solution of a problem of which the United Nations has recognized the international scope and nature cannot therefore be achieved without international co-operation,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.8">Expressing the wish that all States, recognizing the social and humanitarian nature of the problem of refugees will do everything within their power to prevent this problem from becoming a cause of tension between States,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.9">Noting that the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees is charged with the task of supervising international conventions providing for the protection of refugees, and recognizing that the effective co-ordination of measures taken to deal with this problem will depend upon the co-operation of States with the High Commissioner,</p>
                         </item>
                         <item>
                              <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.10">Have agreed as follows</p>
                         </item>
                    </gen-list>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>I. GENERAL PROVISIONS</heading>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 1</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.13">Definition of the term ``Refugee''.</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>A.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.14">For the purposes of the present Convention, the term ``refugee'' shall apply to any person who:</p>
                                   <gen-list>
                                        <label>(1)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>Has been considered a refugee under the Arrangements of 12 May 1926 and 30 June 1928 or under the Conventions of 28 October 1933 and 10 February 1938, the Protocol of 14 September 1939 or the Constitution of the International Refugee Organization; Decisions of non-eligibility taken by the International Refugee Organization during the period of its activities shall not prevent the status of refugee being accorded to persons who fulfil the conditions of paragraph 2 of this section;</p>
                                        </item>
                                        <label>(2)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>As a result of events occurring before 1 January 1951 and owing to well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion, is outside the country of his nationality and is unable or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to avail himself of the protection of that country; or who, not having a nationality and being outside the country of his former habitual residence as a result of such events, is unable or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to return to it.</p>
                                             <p>In the case of a person who has more than one nationality, the term ``the country of his nationality'' shall mean each of the countries of which he is a national, and a person shall not be deemed to be lacking the protection of the country of his nationality if, without any valid reason based on well-founded fear, he has not availed himself of the protection of one of the countries of which he is a national.</p>
                                        </item>
                                   </gen-list>
                              </item>
                              <label>B.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <gen-list>
                                        <label>(1)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.15">For the purposes of this Convention, the words ``events occurring before 1 January 1951'' in Article 1, Section A, shall be understood to mean either (a) `events occurring in Europe before 1 January 1951'; or (b) `events occurring in Europe or elsewhere before 1 January 1951'; and each Contracting State shall make a declaration at the time of signature, ratification or accession, specifying which of these meanings it applies for the purpose of its obligations under this Convention;</p>
                                        </item>
                                        <label>(2)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.16">Any Contracting State which has adopted alternative (a) may at any time extend its obligations by adopting alternative (b) by means of a notification addressed to the Secretary-General of the United Nations.</p>
                                        </item>
                                   </gen-list>
                              </item>
                              <label>C.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.17">This Convention shall cease to apply to any person falling under the terms of Section A if:</p>
                                   <gen-list>
                                        <label>(1)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>He has voluntarily re-availed himself of the protection of the country of his nationality; or</p>
                                        </item>
                                        <label>(2)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>Having lost his nationality, he has voluntarily re-acquired it; or</p>
                                        </item>
                                        <label>(3)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>He has acquired a new nationality, and enjoys the protection of the country of his new nationality; or</p>
                                        </item>
                                        <label>(4)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>He has voluntarily re-established himself in the country which he left or outside which he remained owing to fear of persecution; or</p>
                                        </item>
                                        <label>(5)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>He can no longer, because the circumstances in connection with which he has been recognized as a refugee have ceased to exist, continue to refuse to avail himself of the protection of the country of his nationality;</p>
                                             <p>Provided that this paragraph shall not apply to a refugee falling under Section A(1) of this Article who is able to invoke compelling reasons arising out of previous persecution for refusing to avail himself of the protection of the country of nationality;</p>
                                        </item>
                                        <label>(6)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>Being a person who has no nationality he is, because the circumstances in connection with which he has been recognized as a refugee have ceased to exist, able to return to the country of his former habitual residence;</p>
                                             <p>Provided that this paragraph shall not apply to a refugee falling under section A(1) of this Article who is able to invoke compelling reasons arising out of previous persecution for refusing to return to the country of his former habitual residence.</p>
                                        </item>
                                   </gen-list>
                              </item>
                              <label>D.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.18">This Convention shall not apply to persons who are at present receiving from organs or agencies of the United Nations other than the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees protection or assistance.</p>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.19">When such protection or assistance has ceased for any reason, without the position of such persons being definitively settled in accordance with the relevant resolutions adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations, these persons shall ipso facto be entitled to the benefits of this Convention.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>E.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.20">This Convention shall not apply to a person who is recognized by the competent authorities of the country in which he has taken residence as having the rights and obligations which are attached to the possession of the nationality of that country.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>F.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.21">The provisions of this Convention shall not apply to any person with respect to whom there are serious reasons for considering that:</p>
                                   <gen-list>
                                        <label>(a)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>He has committed a crime against peace, a war crime, or a crime against humanity, as defined in the international instruments drawn up to make provision in respect of such crimes;</p>
                                        </item>
                                        <label>(b)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>he has committed a serious non-political crime outside the country of refuge prior to his admission to that country as a refugee;</p>
                                        </item>
                                        <label>(c)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>he has been guilty of acts contrary to the purposes and principles of the United Nations.</p>
                                        </item>
                                   </gen-list>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 2</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.23">General obligations.</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.24">Every refugee has duties to the country in which he finds himself, which require in particular that he conform to its laws and regulations as well as to measures taken for the maintenance of public order.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 3</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.26">Non-discrimination.</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.27">The Contracting States shall apply the provisions of this Convention to refugees without discrimination as to race, religion or country of origin.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 4</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.29">Religion.</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.30">The Contracting States shall accord to refugees within their territories treatment at least as favourable as that accorded to their nationals with respect to freedom to practise their religion and freedom as regards the religious education of their children.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 5</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.32">Rights granted apart from this Convention.</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.33">Nothing in this Convention shall be deemed to impair any rights and benefits granted by a Contracting State to refugees apart from this Convention.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 6</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.35">The term ``in the same circumstances''.</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.36">For the purposes of this Convention, the term ``in the same circumstances'' implies that any requirements (including requirements as to length and conditions of sojourn or residence) which the particular individual would have to fulfil for the enjoyment of the right in question, if he were not a refugee, must be fulfilled by him, with the exception of requirements which by their nature a refugee is incapable of fulfilling.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 7</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.38">Exemption from reciprocity.</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>1.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.39">Except where this Convention contains more favourable provisions, a Contracting State shall accord to refugees the same treatment as is accorded to aliens generally.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>2.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.40">After a period of three years' residence, all refugees shall enjoy exemption from legislative reciprocity in the territory of the Contracting States.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>3.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.41">Each Contracting State shall continue to accord to refugees the rights and benefits to which they were already entitled, in the absence of reciprocity, at the date of entry into force of this Convention for that State.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>4.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.42">The Contracting States shall consider favourably the possibility of according to refugees, in the absence of reciprocity, rights and benefits beyond those to which they are entitled according to paragraphs 2 and 3, and to extending exemption from reciprocity to refugees who do not fulfil the conditions provided for in paragraphs 2 and 3.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>5.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.43">The provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 apply both to the rights and benefits referred to in Articles 13, 18, 19, 21 and 22 of this Convention and to rights and benefits for which this Convention does not provide.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 8</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.45">Exemption from exceptional measures.</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.46">With regard to exceptional measures which may be taken against the person, property or interests of nationals of a foreign State, the Contracting States shall not apply such measures to a refugee who is formally a national of the said State solely on account of such nationality. Contracting States which, under their legislation, are prevented from applying the general principle expressed in this Article, shall, in appropriate cases, grant exemptions in favour of such refugees.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 9</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.48">Provisional measures.</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.49">Nothing in this Convention shall prevent a Contracting State, in time of war or other grave and exceptional circumstances, from taking provisionally measures which it considers to be essential to the national security in the case of a particular person, pending a determination by the Contracting State that that person is in fact a refugee and that the continuance of such measures is necessary in his case in the interests of national security.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 10</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.51">Continuity of residence.</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>1.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.52">Where a refugee has been forcibly displaced during the Second World War and removed to the territory of a Contracting State, and is resident there, the period of such enforced sojourn shall be considered to have been lawful residence within that territory.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>2.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.53">Where a refugee has been forcibly displaced during the Second World War from the territory of a Contracting State and has, prior to the date of entry into force of this Convention, returned there for the purpose of taking up residence, the period of residence before and after such enforced displacement shall be regarded as one uninterrupted period for any purposes for which uninterrupted residence is required.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 11</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.55">Refugee seamen.</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.56">In the case of refugees regularly serving as crew members on board a ship flying the flag of a Contracting State, that State shall give sympathetic consideration to their establishment on its territory and the issue of travel documents to them or their temporary admission to its territory particularly with a view to facilitating their establishment in another country.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>II. JURIDICAL STATUS</heading>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 12</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.59">Personal status.</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>1.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.60">The personal status of a refugee shall be governed by the law of the country of his domicile or, if he has no domicile, by the law of the country of his residence.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>2.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.61">Rights previously acquired by a refugee and dependent on personal status, more particularly rights attaching to marriage, shall be respected by a Contracting State, subject to compliance, if this be necessary, with the formalities required by the law of that State, provided that the right in question is one which would have been recognized by the law of that State had he not become a refugee.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 13</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.63">Movable and immovable property.</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.64">The Contracting States shall accord to a refugee treatment as favourable as possible and, in any event, not less favourable than that accorded to aliens generally in the same circumstances, as regards the acquisition of movable and immovable property and other rights pertaining thereto, and to leases and other contracts relating to movable and immovable property.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 14</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.66">Artistic rights and industrial property.</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.67">In respect of the protection of industrial property, such as inventions, designs or models, trade marks, trade names, and of rights in literary, artistic, and scientific works, a refugee shall be accorded in the country in which he has his habitual residence the same protection as is accorded to nationals of that country. In the territory of any other Contracting State, he shall be accorded the same protection as is accorded in that territory to nationals of the country in which he has his habitual residence.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 15</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.69">Right of association.</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.70">As regards non-political and non-profit-making associations and trade unions the Contracting States shall accord to refugees lawfully staying in their territory the most favourable treatment accorded to nationals of a foreign country, in the same circumstances.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 16</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.72">Access to courts.</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>1.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.73">A refugee shall have free access to the courts of law on the territory of all Contracting States.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>2.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.74">
                A refugee shall enjoy in the Contracting State in which he has his habitual residence the same treatment as a national in matters pertaining to access to the Courts, including legal assistance and exemption from 
                <i>cautio judicatem solvi.</i>
                                   </p>
                              </item>
                              <label>3.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.75">A refugee shall be accorded in the matters referred to in paragraph 2 in countries other than that in which he has his habitual residence the treatment granted to a national of the country of his habitual residence.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>III. GAINFUL EMPLOYMENT</heading>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 17</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.78">Wage-earning employment.</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>1.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.79">The Contracting States shall accord to refugees lawfully staying in their territory the most favourable treatment accorded to nationals of a foreign country in the same circumstances, as regards the right to engage in wage-earning employment.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>2.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.80">In any case, restrictive measures imposed on aliens or the employment of aliens for the protection of the national labour market shall not be applied to a refugee who was already exempt from them at the date of entry into force of this Convention for the Contracting State concerned, or who fulfils one of the following conditions: </p>
                                   <gen-list>
                                        <label>(a)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>He has completed three years' residence in the country, </p>
                                        </item>
                                        <label>(b)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>He has a spouse possessing the nationality of the country of residence. A refugee may not invoke the benefits of this provision if he has abandoned his spouse, </p>
                                        </item>
                                        <label>(c)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>He has one or more children possessing the nationality of the country of residence.</p>
                                        </item>
                                   </gen-list>
                              </item>
                              <label>3.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.81">The Contracting States shall give sympathetic consideration to assimilating the rights of all refugees with regard to wage-earning employment to those of nationals, and in particular of those refugees who have entered their territory pursuant to programmes of labour recruitment or under immigration schemes.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 18</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.83">Self-employment.</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.84">The Contracting States shall accord to a refugee lawfully in their territory treatment as favourable as possible and, in any event, not less favourable than that accorded to aliens generally in the same circumstances, as regards the right to engage on his own account in agriculture, industry, handicrafts and commerce and to establish commercial and industrial companies.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 19</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.86">Liberal professions.</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>1.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.87">Each Contracting State shall accord to refugees lawfully staying in their territory who hold diplomas recognized by the competent authorities of that State, and who are desirous of practising a liberal profession, treatment as favourable as possible and, in any event, not less favourable than that accorded to aliens generally in the same circumstances.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>2.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.88">The Contracting States shall use their best endeavours consistently with their laws and constitutions to secure the settlement of such refugees in the territories, other than the metropolitan territory, for whose international relations they are responsible.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>IV. WELFARE</heading>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 20</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.91">Rationing.</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.92">Where a rationing system exists, which applies to the population at large and regulates the general distribution of products in short supply, refugees shall be accorded the same treatment as nationals.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 21</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.94">Housing.</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.95">As regards housing, the Contracting States, in so far as the matter is regulated by laws or regulations or is subject to the control of public authorities, shall accord to refugees lawfully staying in their territory treatment as favourable as possible and, in any event, not less favourable than that accorded to aliens generally in the same circumstances.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 22</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.97">Public education.</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>(1)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.98">The Contracting States shall accord to refugees the same treatment as is accorded to nationals with respect to elementary education.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(2)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.99">The Contracting States shall accord to refugees treatment as favourable as possible, and, in any event, not less favourable than that accorded to aliens generally in the same circumstances, with respect to education other than elementary education and, in particular, as regards access to studies, the recognition of foreign school certificates, diplomas and degrees, the remission of fees and charges and the award of scholarships.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 23</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.101">Public relief.</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.102">The Contracting States shall accord to refugees lawfully staying in their territory the same treatment with respect to public relief and assistance as is accorded to their nationals.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 24</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.104">Labour legislation and social security.</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>(1)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.105">The Contracting States shall accord to refugees lawfully staying in their territory the same treatment as is accorded to nationals in respect of the following matters:</p>
                                   <gen-list>
                                        <label>(a)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>In so far as such matters are governed by laws or regulations or are subject to the control of administrative authorities: remuneration, including family allowances where these form part of remuneration, hours of work, overtime arrangements, holidays with pay, restrictions on home work, minimum age of employment, apprenticeship and training, women's work and the work of young persons, and the enjoyment of the benefits of collective bargaining; </p>
                                        </item>
                                        <label>(b)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>Social security (legal provisions in respect of employment injury, occupational diseases, maternity, sickness, disability, old age, death, unemployment, family responsibilities and any other contingency which, according to national laws or regulations, is covered by a social security scheme), subject to the following limitations: (i) There may be appropriate arrangements for the maintenance of acquired rights and rights in course of acquisition; (ii) National laws or regulations of the country of residence may prescribe special arrangements concerning benefits or portions of benefits which are payable wholly out of public funds, and concerning allowances paid to persons who do not fulfil the contribution conditions prescribed for the award of a normal pension. </p>
                                        </item>
                                   </gen-list>
                              </item>
                              <label>(2)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.106">The right to compensation for the death of a refugee resulting from employment injury or from occupational disease shall not be affected by the fact that the residence of the beneficiary is outside the territory of the Contracting State.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(3)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.107">The Contracting States shall extend to refugees the benefits of agreements concluded between them, or which may be concluded between them in the future, concerning the maintenance of acquired rights and rights in the process of acquisition in regard to social security, subject only to the conditions which apply to nationals of the States signatory to the agreements in question.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(4)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.108">The Contracting States will give sympathetic consideration to extending to refugees so far as possible the benefits of similar agreements which may at any time be in force between such Contracting States and non-contracting States.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>V. ADMINISTRATIVE MEASURES</heading>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 25</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.111">Administrative assistance.</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>(1)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.112">When the exercise of a right by a refugee would normally require the assistance of authorities of a foreign country to whom he cannot have recourse, the Contracting States in whose territory he is residing shall arrange that such assistance be afforded to him by their own authorities or by an international authority.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(2)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.113">The authority or authorities mentioned in paragraph 1 shall deliver or cause to be delivered under their supervision to refugees such documents or certifications as would normally be delivered to aliens by or through their national authorities.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(3)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.114">Documents or certifications so delivered shall stand in the stead of the official instruments delivered to aliens by or through their national authorities, and shall be given credence in the absence of proof to the contrary.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(4)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.115">Subject to such exceptional treatment as may be granted to indigent persons, fees may be charged for the services mentioned herein, but such fees shall be moderate and commensurate with those charged to nationals for similar services.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(5)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.116">The provisions of this Article shall be without prejudice to Articles 27 and 28.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 26</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.118">Freedom of movement.</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.119">Each Contracting State shall accord to refugees lawfully in its territory the right to choose their place of residence and to move freely within its territory, subject to any regulations applicable to aliens generally in the same circumstances.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 27</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.121">Identity papers.</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.122">The Contracting States shall issue identity papers to any refugee in their territory who does not possess a valid travel document.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 28</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.124">Travel documents.</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>(1)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.125">The Contracting States shall issue to refugees lawfully staying in their territory travel documents for the purpose of travel outside their territory unless compelling reasons of national security or public order otherwise require, and the provisions of the Schedule to this Convention shall apply with respect to such documents. The Contracting States may issue such a travel document to any other refugee in their territory; they shall in particular give sympathetic consideration to the issue of such a travel document to refugees in their territory who are unable to obtain a travel document from the country of their lawful residence.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(2)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.126">Travel documents issued to refugees under previous international agreements by parties thereto shall be recognized and treated by the Contracting States in the same way as if they had been issued pursuant to this article.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 29</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.128">Fiscal charges.</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>(1)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.129">The Contracting States shall not impose upon refugee duties, charges or taxes, of any description whatsoever, other or higher than those which are or may be levied on their nationals in similar situations.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(2)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.130">Nothing in the above paragraph shall prevent the application to refugees of the laws and regulations concerning charges in respect of the issue to aliens of administrative documents including identity papers.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 30</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.132">Transfer of assets.</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>(1)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.133">A Contracting State shall, in conformity with its laws and regulations, permit refugees to transfer assets which they have brought into its territory, to another country where they have been admitted for the purposes of resettlement.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(2)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.134">A Contracting State shall give sympathetic consideration to the application of refugees for permission to transfer assets wherever they may be and which are necessary for their resettlement in another country to which they have been admitted.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 31</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.136">Refugees unlawfully in the country of refuge.</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>(1)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.137">The Contracting States shall not impose penalties, on account of their illegal entry or presence, on refugees who, coming directly from a territory where their life or freedom was threatened in the sense of Article 1, enter or are present in their territory without authorization, provided they present themselves without delay to the authorities and show good cause for their illegal entry or presence.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(2)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.138">The Contracting States shall not apply to the movements of such refugees restrictions other than those which are necessary and such restrictions shall only be applied until their status in the country is regularized or they obtain admission into another country. The Contracting States shall allow such refugees a reasonable period and all the necessary facilities to obtain admission into another country.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 32</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.140">Expulsion.</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>(1)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.141">The Contracting States shall not expel a refugee lawfully in their territory save on grounds of national security or public order.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(2)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.142">The expulsion of such a refugee shall be only in pursuance of a decision reached in accordance with due process of law. Except where compelling reasons of national security otherwise require, the refugee shall be allowed to submit evidence to clear himself, and to appeal to and be represented for the purpose before competent authority or a person or persons specially designated by the competent authority.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(3)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.143">The Contracting States shall allow such a refugee a reasonable period within which to seek legal admission into another country. The Contracting States reserve the right to apply during that period such internal measures as they may deem necessary.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 33</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.145">Prohibition of expulsion or return (`refoulement').</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>(1)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.146">No Contracting State shall expel or return (`refouler') a refugee in any manner whatsoever to the frontiers of territories where his life or freedom would be threatened on account of his race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(2)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.147">The benefit of the present provision may not, however, be claimed by a refugee whom there are reasonable grounds for regarding as a danger to the security of the country in which he is, or who, having been convicted by a final judgment of a particularly serious crime, constitutes a danger to the community of that country.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 34</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.149">Naturalization.</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.150">The Contracting States shall as far as possible facilitate the assimilation and naturalization of refugees. They shall in particular make every effort to expedite naturalization proceedings and to reduce as far as possible the charges and costs of such proceedings.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>VI. EXECUTORY AND TRANSITORY PROVISIONS</heading>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 35</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.153">Co-operation of the national authorities with the United Nations.</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>(1)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.154">The Contracting States undertake to co-operate with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, or any other agency of the United Nations which may succeed it, in the exercise of its functions, and shall in particular facilitate its duty of supervising the application of the provisions of this Convention.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(2)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.155">In order to enable the Office of the High Commissioner, or any other agency of the United Nations which may succeed it, to make reports to the competent organs of the United Nations, the Contracting States undertake to provide them in the appropriate form with information and statistical data requested concerning:</p>
                                   <gen-list>
                                        <label>(a)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>the condition of refugees,</p>
                                        </item>
                                        <label>(b)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>the implementation of this Convention, and</p>
                                        </item>
                                        <label>(c)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>laws, regulations and decrees which are, or may hereafter be, in force relating to refugees.</p>
                                        </item>
                                   </gen-list>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 36</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.157">Information on national legislation.</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.158">The Contracting States shall communicate to the Secretary-General of the United Nations the laws and regulations which they may adopt to ensure the application of this Convention.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 37</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.160">Relation to previous Conventions.</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.161">Without prejudice to Article 28, paragraph 2, of this Convention, this Convention replaces, as between parties to it, the Arrangements of 5 July 1922, 31 May 1924, 12 May 1926, 30 June 1928 and 30 July 1935, the Conventions of 28 October 1933 and 10 February 1938, the Protocol of 14 September 1939 and the Agreement of 15 October 1946.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
               </legal-block>
               <legal-block>
                    <heading>VII. FINAL CLAUSES</heading>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 38</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.164">Settlement of disputes.</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.165">Any dispute between parties to this Convention relating to its interpretation or application, which cannot be settled by other means, shall be referred to the International Court of Justice at the request of any one of the parties to the dispute.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 39</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.167">Signature, ratification and accession.</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>(1)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.168">This Convention shall be opened for signature at Geneva on 28 July 1951 and shall hereafter be deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations. It shall be open for signature at the European Office of the United Nations from 28 July to 31 August 1951 and shall be re-opened for signature at the Headquarters of the United Nations from 17 September 1951 to 31 December 1952.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(2)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.169">This Convention shall be open for signature on behalf of all States Members of the United Nations, and also on behalf of any other State invited to attend the Conference of Plenipotentiaries on the Status of Refugees and Stateless Persons or to which an invitation to sign will have been addressed by the General Assembly. It shall be ratified and the instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(3)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.170">This Convention shall be open from 28 July 1951 for accession by the States referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article. Accession shall be effected by the deposit of an instrument of accession with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 40</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.172">Territorial application clause.</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>(1)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.173">Any state may, at the time of signature, ratification or accession, declare that this Convention shall extend to all or any of the territories for the international relations of which it is responsible. Such a declaration shall take effect when the Convention enters into force for the State concerned.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(2)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.174">At any time thereafter any such extension shall be made by notification addressed to the Secretary-General of the United Nations and shall take effect as from the ninetieth day after the day of receipt by the Secretary-General of the United Nations of this notification, or as from the date of entry into force of the Convention for the State concerned, whichever is the later.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(3)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.175">With respect to those territories to which this Convention is not extended at the time of signature, ratification or accession, each State concerned shall consider the possibility of taking the necessary steps in order to extend the application of this Convention to such territories, subject, where necessary for constitutional reasons, to the consent of the governments of such territories.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 41</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.177">Federal clause.</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.178">In the case of a Federal or non-unitary State, the following provisions shall apply:</p>
                                   <gen-list>
                                        <label>(a)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>With respect to those Articles of this Convention that come within the legislative jurisdiction of the federal legislative authority, the obligations of the Federal Government shall to this extent be the same as those of Parties which are not Federal States.</p>
                                        </item>
                                        <label>(b)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>With respect to those Articles of this Convention that come within the legislative jurisdiction of constituent States, provinces or cantons which are not, under the constitutional system of the federation, bound to take legislative action, the Federal Government shall bring such Articles with a favourable recommendation to the notice of the appropriate authorities of States, provinces or cantons at the earliest possible moment.</p>
                                        </item>
                                        <label>(c)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>A Federal State Party to this Convention shall, at the request of any other Contracting State transmitted through the Secretary-General of the United Nations, supply a statement of the law and practice of the Federation and its constituent units in regard to any particular provision of the Convention showing the extent to which effect has been given to that provision by legislative or other action.</p>
                                        </item>
                                   </gen-list>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 42</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.180">Reservations.</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>(1)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.181">At the time of signature, ratification or accession, any State may make reservations to articles of the Convention other than to Articles 1, 3, 4, 16(1), 33, 36-46 inclusive.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(2)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.182">Any State making a reservation in accordance with paragraph 1 of this article may at any time withdraw the reservation by a communication to that effect addressed to the Secretary-General of the United Nations.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 43</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.184">Entry into force.</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>(1)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.185">This Convention shall come into force on the ninetieth day following the day of deposit of the sixth instrument of ratification or accession.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(2)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.186">For each State ratifying or acceding to the Convention after the deposit of the sixth instrument of ratification or accession, the Convention shall enter into force on the ninetieth day following the date of deposit by such State of its instrument of ratification or accession.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 44</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.188">Denunciation.</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>(1)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.189">Any Contracting State may denounce this Convention at any time by a notification addressed to the Secretary-General of the United Nations.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(2)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.190">Such denunciation shall take effect for the Contracting State concerned one year from the date upon which it is received by the Secretary-General of the United Nations.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(3)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.191">Any State which has made a declaration or notification under Article 40 may, at any time thereafter, by a notification to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, declare that the Convention shall cease to extend to such territory one year after the date of receipt of the notification by the Secretary-General.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 45</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.193">Revision.</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>(1)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.194">Any Contracting State may request revision of this Convention at any time by a notification addressed to the Secretary-General of the United Nations.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(2)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.195">The General Assembly of the United Nations shall recommend the steps, if any, to be taken in respect of such request.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 46</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.197">Notifications by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall inform all Members of the United Nations and non-member States referred to in Article 39:</p>
                                   <gen-list>
                                        <label>(a)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>of declarations and notifications in accordance with Section B of Article 1;</p>
                                        </item>
                                        <label>(b)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>of signatures, ratifications and accessions in accordance with Article 39;</p>
                                        </item>
                                        <label>(c)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>of declarations and notifications in accordance with Article 40;</p>
                                        </item>
                                        <label>(d)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>of reservations and withdrawals in accordance with Article 42;</p>
                                        </item>
                                        <label>(e)</label>
                                        <item>
                                             <p>of the date on which this Convention will come into force in accordance with Article 43;</p>
                                        </item>
                                        <label>(g)</label>
                                        <item>of requests for revision in accordance with Article 45.</item>
                                   </gen-list>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.1.198">
                                        <sc>In faith whereof</sc>
                 the undersigned, duly authorized, have signed this Convention on behalf of their respective Governments, 
                <sc>done</sc>
                 at 
                <sc>Geneva</sc>
                , this twenty-eighth day of July, one thousand nine hundred and fifty-one, in a single copy, of which the English and French texts are equally authentic and which shall remain deposited in the archives of the United Nations, and certified true copies of which shall be delivered to all Members of the United Nations and to the non-member States referred to in Article 39.
              </p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
               </legal-block>
          </legal-block>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="edio">
          <heading>Protocol relating to the Status of Refugees</heading>
          <heading-note>signed 31 January 1967</heading-note>
          <legal-block>
               <gen-list>
                    <item>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.2">The States Parties to the present Protocol,</p>
                    </item>
                    <item>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.3">Considering that the Convention relating to the Status of Refugees done at Geneva on 28 July 1951 (hereinafter referred to as the Convention) covers only those persons who have become refugees as a result of events occurring before 1 January 1951,</p>
                    </item>
                    <item>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.4">Considering that new refugee situations have arisen since the Convention was adopted and that the refugees concerned may therefore not fall within the scope of the Convention,</p>
                    </item>
                    <item>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.5">Considering that it is desirable that equal status should be enjoyed by all refugees covered by the definition in the Convention irrespective of the dateline 1 January 1951,</p>
                    </item>
                    <item>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.6">Have agreed as follows</p>
                    </item>
               </gen-list>
               <legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 1</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.8">General provision.</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>1.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.9">The States Parties to the present Protocol undertake to apply Articles 2 to 34 inclusive of the Convention to refugees as hereinafter defined.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>2.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.10">For the purpose of the present Protocol, the term `refugee' shall, except as regards the application of paragraph 3 of this Article, mean any person within the definition of Article 1 of the Convention as if the words `As a result of events occurring before 1 January 1951 and ... `and the words' ... a result of such events', in Article 1 A (2) were omitted.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>3.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.11">The present Protocol shall be applied by the States Parties hereto without any geographic limitation, save that existing declarations made by States already Parties to the Convention in accordance with Article 1 B (1) (a) of the Convention, shall, unless extended under Article 1 B (2) thereof, apply also under the present Protocol.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 2</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.13">Co-operation of the national authorities with the United Nations.</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>1.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.14">The States Parties to the present Protocol undertake to co-operate with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, or any other agency of the United Nations which may succeed it, in the exercise of its functions, and shall in particular facilitate its duty of supervising the application of the provisions of the present Protocol.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>2.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.15">In order to enable the Office of the High Commissioner, or any other agency of the United Nations which may succeed it, to make reports to the competent organs of the United Nations, the States Parties to the present Protocol undertake to provide them with the information and statistical data requested, in the appropriate form, concerning: (a) The condition of refugees; (b) The implementation of the present Protocol; (c) Laws, regulations and decrees which are, or may hereafter be, in force relating to refugees.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 3</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.17">Information on national legislation.</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.18">The States Parties to the present Protocol shall communicate to the Secretary-General of the United Nations the laws and regulations which they may adopt to ensure the application of the present Protocol.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 4</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.20">Settlement of disputes.</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.21">Any dispute between States Parties to the present Protocol which relates to its interpretation or application and which cannot be settled by other means shall be referred to the International Court of Justice at the request of any one of the parties to the dispute.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 5</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.23">Accession.</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.24">The present Protocol shall be open for accession on behalf of all States Parties to the Convention and of any other State Member of the United Nations or member of any of the specialized agencies or to which an invitation to accede may have been addressed by the General Assembly of the United Nations. Accession shall be effected by the deposit of an instrument of accession with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 6</heading>
                         <gen-list>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.26">Federal clause.</p>
                              </item>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.27">In the case of a Federal or non-unitary State, the following provisions shall apply:</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>(a)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p>With respect to those articles of the Convention to be applied in accordance with Article 1, paragraph 1, of the present Protocol that come within the legislative jurisdiction of the federal legislative authority, the obligations of the Federal Government shall to this extent be the same as those of States Parties which are not Federal States;</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(b)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p>With respect to those articles of the Convention to be applied in accordance with Article 1, paragraph 1, of the present Protocol that come within the legislative jurisdiction of constituent States, provinces or cantons which are not, under the constitutional system of the federation, bound to take legislative action, the Federal Government shall bring such articles with a favourable recommendation to the notice of the appropriate authorities of States, provinces or cantons at the earliest possible moment;</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>(c)</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p>A Federal State Party to the present Protocol shall, at the request of any other State Party hereto transmitted through the Secretary-General of the United Nations, supply a statement of the law and practice of the Federation and its constituent units in regard to any particular provision of the Convention to be applied in accordance with Article 1, paragraph 1, of the present Protocol, showing the extent to which effect has been given to that provision by legislative or other action.</p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Article 7</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.29">Reservations and declarations.</p>
                         <gen-list>
                              <label>1.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.30">At the time of accession, any State may make reservations in respect of Article 4 of the present Protocol and in respect of the application in accordance with Article 1 of the present Protocol of any provisions of the Convention other than those contained in Articles 1, 3, 4, 16(1) and 33 thereof, provided that in the case of a State Party to the Convention reservations made under this Article shall not extend to refugees in respect of whom the Convention applies.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>2.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.31">Reservations made by States Parties to the Convention in accordance with Article 42 thereof shall, unless withdrawn, be applicable in relation to their obligations under the present Protocol.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>3.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.32">Any State making a reservation in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article may at any time withdraw such reservation by a communication to that effect addressed to the Secretary-General of the United Nations.</p>
                              </item>
                              <label>4.</label>
                              <item>
                                   <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.33">
                Declarations made under Article 40, paragraphs 1 and 2, of the Convention by a State Party thereto which accedes to the present Protocol shall be deemed to apply in respect of the present Protocol, unless upon accession a notification to the contrary is addressed by the State Party concerned to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. The provisions of Article 40, paragraphs 2 and 3, and of Article 44, paragraph 3, of the Convention shall be deemed to apply 
                <i>mutatis mutandis</i>
                 to the present Protocol.
              </p>
                              </item>
                         </gen-list>
                    </legal-block>
                    <legal-block>
                         <heading>Articles 8-11</heading>
                         <p id="UNHCR.EDIO.2.35">Entry into force, denunciation, notifications etc.</p>
                    </legal-block>
               </legal-block>
          </legal-block>
     </int-org-section>
     <!--8.vi.24: 23,475 words (with Conv.)-->
</int-org-entry>