<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="IO-UN.2388" id-root="io-un.2388" iso="io-un.2388" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>United Nations Industrial Development Organization</org-entry-name>
               <abbr>UNIDO</abbr>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">International Organizations</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">United Nations</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb">United Nations (Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations)</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="edio">United Nations Industrial Development Organization</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>Vienna International Centre, Wagramerstr. 5, POB 300, 1400 Vienna, Austria</verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <telephone alsofax="N">(1) 260260</telephone>
               <fax>(1) 2692669</fax>
               <email>unido@unido.org</email>
               <internet>www.unido.org</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p usage="io-unido.1.1">UNIDO began operations in 1967, as an autonomous organization within the UN Secretariat, and became a specialized agency of the UN in 1985. It aims to promote inclusive and sustainable industrial development in developing nations and states with economies in transition and to assist such countries to integrate fully into the global economic system.</p>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2390" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Members</heading>
               <p id="IO-UN.2391">UNIDO has 172 member states.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2392" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <heading-note>April 2024</heading-note>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2393" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>General Conference</heading>
               <p id="IO-UN.2394">The General Conference, which consists of representatives of all member states, meets every two years. It deliberates on UNIDO's policy concepts and reviews its strategies and budget. The 20th regular session of the General Conference was held in November-December 2023, in Vienna, on the theme `Fair Globalization: Innovative Solutions for the Industry of Tomorrow’.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2395" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Industrial Development Board</heading>
               <p id="IO-UN.2396">The Board consists of 53 members elected by the General Conference for a four-year period. It reviews the implementation of the approved work programme, the regular and operational budgets and other General Conference decisions. Every four years it recommends a candidate for the post of Director-General to the General Conference. The 52nd session of the Board was to be convened in November 2024.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2397" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Programme and Budget Committee</heading>
               <p id="IO-UN.2398">The Committee, comprising 27 members elected by the General Conference for a two-year term, assists the Industrial Development Board in preparing work programmes and budgets. It meets once a year.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2399" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Secretariat</heading>
               <p>
        The secretariat includes offices of the Chief of Cabinet; Legal Affairs and Compliance; and Evaluation and Internal Oversight; and directorates of Technical Cooperation and Sustainable Industrial Development (including departments of Capacity Development, Industrial Policy Advice and Statistics, Digital Transformation and Artificial Intelligence Strategies, Decarbonization and Sustainable Energy, Circular Economy and Environmental Protection, SME Competitiveness, Quality and Job Creation, and Coordination and Integration Support); Corporate Services and Operations; Global Partnerships and External Relations; and Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) Innovation and Economic Transformation (including departments of Climate and Technology Partnerships, Agribusiness and Infrastructure Development, Fair Production, Sustainability Standards and Trade, 
        
        Quality, Impact and Accountability, Innovative Finance and International Financial Institutions, and Public-Private Partnerships). An Office of South-South and Triangular Cooperation was established in 2022. UNIDO employed 684 staff members and 1,610 consultants at 31 December 2022.
      </p>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="IO-UN.2401" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Director-General</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Gerd</forename>
                                        <surname>Müller</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Germany</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
               <!--~ Deputy DG: Ciyong Zou - MD of the Directorate of Technical Cooperation and Sustainable Industrial Devt iii.23-->
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2402" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Field Representation</heading>
               <p id="IO-UN.2403">UNIDO has a network of 48 regional and country hubs and offices that cover 156 countries. In addition, there are liaison offices in Brussels, Belgium; Geneva, Switzerland; and New York, USA.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2404" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Activities</heading>
          <p>In December 2013 UNIDO’s General Conference, convened in Peru, adopted the Lima Declaration, which emphasized the organization’s renewed commitment towards achieving inclusive and sustainable industrial development (ISID). This mandate was incorporated into the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that were adopted by heads of state in September 2015. Specifically, UNIDO was to support efforts to achieve SDG 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation.</p>
          <p>UNIDO’s areas of activity are focused on the following strategic priorities: Supporting sustainable supply chains; Limiting climate breakdown; and Ending hunger. Cross-cutting themes are: digitalization; technology and knowledge transfer; investment promotion; training and skills; the circular economy; and women’s economic empowerment.</p>
          <p>UNIDO’s 2022-25 medium-term programme, titled `Integration and scale-up to build back better’, had the following priority thematic areas: modernizing UNIDO by streamlining its internal structures, decentralizing decision making, and increasing efficiency and effectiveness; and strengthening the organization as a platform for knowledge and technology transfer, and for the mobilization of innovation and investments (with a particular focus on supply chains and sustainability standards; sustainable access to energy and industrial decarbonization; and promoting food security and agribusiness).</p>
          <p>
      The 2024 edition of UNIDO’s 
      <publ-name>Industrial Development Report</publ-name>
      , released in November 2023, noted an ongoing global polycrisis that was prompted by lingering impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and an increase in armed conflicts and climate change-related catastrophes. It was characterized by a surge in inflation and unemployment, disruptions in value chains, and an unprecedented rise in extreme poverty and hunger. Collaborative, future-ready, SDG-oriented, regionally-co-ordinated industrial policy was deemed a key to accelerating growth, innovation, job creation, social equality, poverty reduction, and combating impacts of climate change.
    </p>
          <p>In March 2024 UNIDO reported growth of 1.5% in global manufacturing across 2023, in comparison with an overall deceleration of 1.5% in 2022, growth of 3.3% in 2021, and a decline of 4.1% in 2020. The manufacturing growth of industrialized economies stood at only 1.4% in 2023, while that of industrializing economies was 2.6%. Motor vehicles was the top performing industrial sector in 2023, followed by other transport equipment and then computers and electronics.</p>
          <int-org-section id="UNIDO.IO.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Strengthening Knowledge and Institutions</heading>
               <p>UNIDO provides industrial policy advice and support services to member states; and helps to develop analytical capacities for national policy formulation. Policymaking is assisted through mechanisms including the organization’s Enhancing the Quality of Industrial Policies (EQuIP) toolkit, and online Industrial Analytics Platform (IAP). Launched in late 2018, the IAP collates, and presents in an accessible format, data on selected industrial development indicators, as well as relevant expert research. The IAP includes an SDG 9 Industry Tracker, a Production Tracker, a Competitive Industries element, and a Value Chains element, which demonstrates how various types of production (classified under high-tech, mid-tech and low-tech), in member economies, integrate into global value chains.</p>
               <p>UNIDO compiles and disseminates global industrial statistics and relevant publications. A UNIDO Statistics Data Portal is maintained. Various databases on industrial statistics are compiled, including INDSTAT4, providing manufacturing sector data from 1990, the UNIDO Industrial Demand-Supply Balance Database (IDSB), and the Mining and Utilities Statistics Database (MINSTAT).</p>
               <p>The organization has developed a comprehensive programme to improve deficiencies in standards, metrology, accreditation and conformity infrastructure (for example with respect to global sanitary and phytosanitary standards), to help developing countries overcome technical barriers while improving product quality, to meet the standards required in the global trading arena. It also undertakes a normative role with regard to the achievement of ISID, by drafting relevant instruments, advocacy, capacity-building, dialogue, and monitoring activities.</p>
               <p>UNIDO promotes SME clusters, and technology transfer and diffusion. It engages in partnerships aimed at promoting knowledge exchange, such as the UN Interagency Task Team on Science, Technology and Innovation for the SDGs, and the (UNIDO-led) Multilateral Industrial Policy Forum (MIPF). The 2023 annual gathering of the MIPF, held in March in Vienna and online, focused on policies related to the digitalization of manufacturing, and sustainable industrialization. UNIDO works to overcome digital inequalities (the `digital divide’) between and within countries.</p>
               <p>The organization’s Programme for Country Partnership (PCP), initiated in 2014, has mobilized host government-led multi-stakeholder partnerships to boost national ISID programming, with a focus on industrial sectors with high growth potential, in Cambodia, Côte d’Ivoire, Egypt, Ethiopia, Kyrgyzstan, Morocco, Peru, Rwanda, Senegal, Tanzania and Zambia. The eighth ISID Forum was organized by UNIDO in November 2021, in Vienna, on the theme `Partnerships for socio-economic recovery’. UNIDO helps to formulate and implement tailored technical co-operation programmes to build developing member states’ own programming capacity in the industrial sector. In 2022 the value of UNIDO’s technical co-operation delivery totalled US&#8201;$180.3m.</p>
               <p>The fifth meeting of a UNIDO-European Union (EU) High-Level Dialogue was convened in December 2022; the organizations signed a Letter of Intent on continued co-operation, including the implementation of joint projects.</p>
               <p>Encouraging foreign direct investment, and promoting technology transfer and technology diffusion projects aimed at strengthening developing countries' national innovation systems, are key elements of UNIDO's poverty reduction strategy. UNIDO maintains global networks of nine investment and technology promotion offices and nine regional sustainability centres, and has helped to establish several International Technology Centres, to promote technology transfer programmes.</p>
               <p usage="edio">The following International Technology Centres were active in 2024: the International Centre for Science and High Technology (based in Trieste, Italy); the International Centre for Advancement of Manufacturing Technology (Bangalore, India); the International Centre for Small Hydro Power (Huanzhou, People’s Republic of China); International Centre for Promotion and Transfer of Solar Energy (Lanzhou, China); International Centre of Hydrogen Energy Technology (İstanbul, Türkiye); UNIDO-Shanghai International IT Technology Promotion Centre (Shanghai, China); UNIDO-Shenzhen Environment Technology Promotion Centre; International Centre for Materials Technology Promotion (Beijing, China); Russia-Brazil Centre for Technological Cooperation (Moscow, Russian Federation). Several international and national technology centres also co-operate with UNIDO. UNIDO Centres for South-South Industrial Co-operation are located in New Delhi, India, and in Beijing.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.UNIDO.0010" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Sustainable Supply Chains</heading>
               <p>UNIDO reported in 2023 that around four-fifths of trade is based on complex global supply chains. It works to ensure fair deals for producers in developing countries, and promotes the efficient use of resources through the development of sustainable supply chain operations and by supporting member states to adopt circular economy business models and technologies, whereby waste is reduced and reused (and marine littering from land-based industrial sources is prevented).</p>
               <p>UNIDO assists with the establishment of export consortia, through which small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) can pool knowledge, financial resources and contacts to improve their export potential while also reducing costs, and promotes business partnerships, in particular between industrialized and developing countries and economies in transition. UNIDO implements programmes that build industrial capacities, in both public and private institutions, to formulate policies and strategies for developing trade competitiveness. It supports innovation and business incubation. The organization has assembled a network of experts who can extend to policymakers in developing countries and economies in transition direct technical assistance on the motor vehicle manufacturing sector.</p>
               <p>In February 2022 UNIDO established an Office of South-South and Triangular Cooperation (SSTIC) to strengthen its efficacy in building industrial capacity and infrastructure in low- and middle-income countries. New operational guidelines for UNIDO’s SSTIC agenda were issued in September 2023.</p>
               <p>UNIDO and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) have organized a series of Global Manufacturing and Industrialization Summits (GMIS—a process launched in 2015), with participation by policymakers, researchers, business leaders and representatives of civil society. GMIS2022 was convened in Pittsburgh, USA, in September of that year. UNIDO and the Kiel Institut für Weltwirtschaft (Germany), and partners, have organized a Forum on Global Industrialization (FGI) series; in 2022 this was held in December, and considered the theme `Sustainable Supply Chains in Times of Multiple Crises’. In February 2024 UNIDO organized a Development Dialogue on fostering resilient, sustainable and productive supply chains.</p>
               <p>In March 2020 UNIDO and the European Brand Institute signed a Memorandum of Understanding on future co-operation. The two organizations jointly convened the 19th Brand Global Summit, themed `Brands for Impact’, in October 2023, at the UN’s Vienna International Centre.</p>
               <p>UNIDO supports SMEs in ensuring that pursuing a corporate social responsibility (CSR) approach enhances their competitiveness and market access, and contributes to the UN Global Compact aimed at promoting CSR. Activities in this area have included the development of a Responsible Entrepreneurs Achievement Programme and the establishment of CSR networks, centres and multi-stakeholder platforms.</p>
               <p>
        UNIDO’s 
        <publ-name>Competitive Industrial Performance Index 2023</publ-name>
        , issued in July of that year, listed the most competitive industrial performers globally as: Germany, China, Ireland, the Republic of Korea and the USA, Japan, and the Republic of Korea.
      </p>
               <p>UNIDO organizes an annual Bridge for Cities event, which promotes sustainable urban industrial development within the framework of China’s Belt and Road Initiative (2024: in October, in Vienna).</p>
               <p>
        UNIDO plays a key role in co-ordinating Africa Industrial­ization Day, held annually on 20 November, and is leading inter-agency efforts to implement the programmes of the Third Industrial Development Decade for Africa 2016-25 (`IDDA III’). UNIDO and the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="WTO-IO.235">International Trade Centre</xr>
         jointly manage a West Africa Competitiveness Programme.
      </p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.UNIDO.0012" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Climate Action</heading>
               <p>
        UNIDO promotes harnessing renewable clean energy and energy efficiency to reduce industrial greenhouse gas emissions. It recognizes that industry is one of the largest greenhouse gas emitters; that industry itself is adversely affected by resource depletion and climate change; and that industry has the potential to provide technological solutions, green jobs and business models. In November 2018 UNIDO joined the steering committee of the Green Growth Knowledge Platform (GGKP, also comprising the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.1369">UN Environment Programme</xr>
        , 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="OECD.IO">Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development</xr>
        , World Bank and 
        <xr id="OTHER.DEVT.IO.1" pageref="N">Global Green Growth Institute</xr>
        ). The GGKP includes the Green Industry Platform, established in 2012 by UNIDO, UNEP and the UN Global Compact, with a view to mainstreaming climate, environmental and social dimensions into business operations.
      </p>
               <p>UNIDO, with UNEP, the International Labour Organization and the UN Institute for Training and Research, support the Partnership for Action on Green Economy (PAGE), which during 2021-30 aimed to assist selected countries in developing national green economy strategies focused on generating employment and skills, promoting clean technologies, and reducing environmental risks and poverty. UNIDO’s role in PAGE includes offering industrial advice and access to industry and public-private partnerships. UNIDO has promoted sustainable cities. A five-year UNIDO Global Eco-Industrial Parks Programme (GEIPP) was launched in December 2018; GEIPP II, covering 2023-28, was initiated in September 2023. In January 2021 UNIDO, the World Bank and the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit GmbH launched an International Framework for Eco-Industrial Parks.</p>
               <p>UNIDO hosts the secretariat of a global network for Resource Efficient and Cleaner Production (RECPnet). With the Global Environment Fund UNIDO developed a Global Cleantech Innovation Programme, which has aimed to promote affordable and transferable sustainable industrial solutions. UNIDO’s Global Chemical Leasing Programme promotes increasing the value of the efficiency and safety of application of chemicals rather than their sales volume. A Mercury Programme focuses on reducing mercury pollution caused by artisanal gold mining, and supports the development of Minamata National Action Plans to promote the phasing out of mercury in industrial processes. UNIDO supports developing country members with adherence to international regulations, including in the use of mercury, methyl bromide and nitrous oxide. In January 2024 UNIDO initiated a Global Alliance and Partnership for Responsible and Green Minerals.</p>
               <p>
        UNIDO co-ordinates the Clean Energy Ministerial Industrial Deep Decarbonization Initiative (IDDI), a global coalition of public and private organizations that work together to generate demand for low-carbon industrial materials. UNIDO was invited to co-ordinate a new International Hydrogen Trade Forum that was established in July 2023 by hydrogen importing and exporting countries, under the leadership of the Netherlands and the UAE. In February 2024 UNIDO, the International Renewable Energy Agency and the German Institute of Development and Sustainability co-authored a policy report titled 
        <publ-name>Green Hydrogen for Sustainable Industrial Development: A Policy Toolkit for Developing Countries</publ-name>
        .
      </p>
               <p>On behalf of UN-Energy—the inter-agency mechanism that aims to promote UN system-wide co-operation in energy-related issues—UNIDO identifies areas for collaboration between the UN and the private sector in addressing challenges posed by climate change and the achievement of sustainable development. UNIDO co-convenes the biennial Vienna Energy and Climate Forum, focused on promoting sustainable solutions to the world’s energy and development challenges. The 2023 gathering was held in November.</p>
               <p>UNIDO is one of the implementing agencies of the Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol (focused on reducing the use of ozone-depleting substances) and is also involved in implementing the Kyoto Protocol of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC—relating to greenhouse gas emissions). UNIDO has helped to develop national ozone units responsible for designing, monitoring and implementing programmes to phase out ozone-depleting substances. In accordance with the Stockholm Convention on persistent organic pollutants (POPs), UNIDO has supported countries with the preparation of national implementation plans for the effective removal of POPs and for the development of new industries without POP releases. UNIDO is a partner agency of the Climate and Clean Air Coalition to Reduce Short Lived Climate Pollutants (SLCPs), which was launched in February 2012 with the aim of combating SLCPs, including methane, black carbon and certain hydrofluorocarbons. UNIDO has co-operated with the International Organization for Standardization on the development of a global management system standard on energy. In August 2020 UNIDO became an Accredited Entity of the Green Climate Fund (and thereby entitled to project funding). In December UNIDO was accredited as an implementing partner of the Adaptation Fund (established in 2010, under the Kyoto Protocol). In July 2023 the Industrial Development Board endorsed a new UNIDO Climate Change Strategy, and requested that an action plan should be drafted to facilitate its implementation.</p>
               <p usage="edio">In 2022 UNIDO, UNDP and other partners launched a new Renewable Energy Innovation Fund (REIF) that supports decarbonization in Uruguay; the Fund’s first three operations were approved in October 2023.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UN.UNIDIO.001" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Ending Hunger</heading>
               <p>
        UNIDO aims to eliminate hunger by cutting post-harvest losses and through the development and upgrading of agribusiness value chains. It recognizes that agro-based industries play a major role in the transition from traditional rural to competitive sustainable manufacturing-based economies, and fosters the development of rural entrepreneurship and job creation. It builds linkages with strategic financing institutions; organizes relevant global forums and expert group meetings in related fields; and issues specialized training materials. In the area of food processing, programmes have been initiated to open market channels for agro-products. UNIDO works to strengthen oversight of the food systems supply chain, and promotes the transfer of technologies and best practices that reduce food loss and enhance food safety and security. The organization supports skills development in the industrial processing of non-food agricultural produce. UNIDO has developed agro-industrial hubs in Africa, in the context of the Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development Programme of the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="AU.IO">African Union</xr>
        . In March 2023 UNIDO and the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.1742">Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN (FAO)</xr>
         launched a new global initiative, the Agrifood Systems Transformation Accelerator, which aimed to foster partnerships and boost private-sector investment in LDCs’ food systems.
      </p>
               <p>UNIDO aims to encourage the full participation of women in economic progress through gender awareness programmes and practical training initiatives. UNIDO’s Rural and Women's Entrepreneurship Development Programme, which fosters businesses in developing countries, has a particular focus on women and also youth. An Entrepreneurship Curriculum Programme supports youth training and capacity building.</p>
               <p>UNIDO provides advice to governmental agencies and industrial institutions on improving the management of human resources, and pursues a human security and a human rights-based approach to industrialization. The organization supports post-crisis productive rehabilitation and reconstruction through the building of sustainable livelihoods, particularly through strengthening the micro and small enterprises (MSE) sector; rehabilitating and establishing vocational training systems upgrading physical infrastructure; targeting specific groups with specific needs through outreach training programmes; and supporting the creation of MSEs.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2416" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Finance</heading>
          <p id="IO-UN.2417">The provisional regular budget for 2024-25, adopted by the Programme and Budget Committee in May 2023, amounted to €165.8m., and was to be financed mainly by assessed contributions payable by member states. There was an operational budget of some €42.7m. for the same period, to be financed principally by voluntary contributions. The Industrial Development Fund is used by UNIDO to finance development projects that fall outside the usual systems of multilateral funding.</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.2418" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Publications</heading>
          <publ-list>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Annual Report</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Industrial Development Report</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">every 2-3 years</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>International Yearbook of Industrial Statistics</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">annually</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>World Manufacturing Production</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">quarterly</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
          </publ-list>
          <p id="IO-UN.2419">Numerous manuals, guidelines, working papers and reports.</p>
     </int-org-section>
</int-org-entry>