<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="UNODA.IO" id-root="unoda.io" iso="unoda.io" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>United Nations Office for Disarmament Affairs</org-entry-name>
               <abbr>UNODA</abbr>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">UNITED NATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb">United Nations (Other Bodies)</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="edio">United Nations Office for Disarmament Affairs</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>UN Plaza, Rm S-3024, New York, NY 10017, USA</verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <fax>(917) 367-1755</fax>
               <email>unoda@un.org</email>
               <internet>www.un.org/disarmament</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p id="IO-UN.UNODA.99">A UN Department for Disarmament Affairs was established in 1982, on the recommendation of the UN General Assembly’s second Special Session on Disarmament. It was renamed the Centre for Disarmament Affairs in 1992, and in 1997 it became the Department for Disarmament Affairs. In 2007 a further name change was effected, to the UN Office for Disarmament Affairs (UNODA). UNODA promotes preventive disarmament measures, as well as military confidence-building and transparency.</p>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="UNODA.IO.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <heading-note>April 2024</heading-note>
          <int-org-section id="UNODA.IO.4" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Administration</heading>
               <p id="UNODA.IO.5">
        The principal administrative units are the Branches of Weapons of Mass Destruction, Conventional Arms including Practical Disarmament Measures, and Regional Disarmament, Information and Outreach (comprising Regional Activities Units in New York, the UNODA Office in Vienna, and Regional Centres in Lima, Peru, Lomé, Togo, and Kathmandu, Nepal). The Conference on Disarmament Secretariat and Conference Support Branch is based in Geneva, Switzerland. UNODA’s Vienna Office facilitates co-operation with the UN Office in Vienna and with Vienna-based agencies, including the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.1837">International Atomic Energy Agency</xr>
         (IAEA), 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="GOVTPOL.IO.166">Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization</xr>
        , 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.38">Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons</xr>
         (OPCW), and 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.1170">UN Office on Drugs and Crime</xr>
        .
      </p>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="UNODA.IO.3" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>High Representative for Disarmament Affairs</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Izumi</forename>
                                        <surname>Nakamitsu</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Japan</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="UNODA.IO.6" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Activities</heading>
          <p>A UNODA Strategic Plan being undertaken during 2021-25 had as strategic objectives: (i) Strengthened adherence to and implementation of norms, mechanisms and instruments related to disarmament and the regulation of arms; (ii) Effective measures to anticipate and address new and evolving developments related to arms and international security; (iii) Implementation of tailored approaches to enhance regional and subregional security through disarmament and the regulation of arms; (iv) Increased awareness of and support for the value of disarmament and the regulation of arms to international peace and security, conflict prevention and sustainable development; and (v) Enhanced and diversified partnerships to ensure full and effective participation by a broad range of stakeholders in disarmament and the regulation of arms.</p>
          <p>UNODA services the UN Conference on Disarmament (the international community’s multilateral disarmament negotiating forum, which was established in 1984) and its ad hoc committees. The Conference on Disarmament holds three sessions annually. In 2024 the Conference on Disarmament was focused on: Cessation of the nuclear arms race and nuclear disarmament; Prevention of nuclear war, including all related matters; Prevention of an arms race in outer space; Effective international arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons; New types of weapons of mass destruction and new systems of such weapons; Radiological weapons; a Comprehensive programme of disarmament; and Transparency in armaments.</p>
          <p>In February 2021 the Conference on Disarmament agreed to extend by a further five years, until 5 February 2026, the term of the Treaty on Measures for the Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms (known as the NEW START Treaty), which had been in effect between the Russian Federation and the USA since February 2011. (The NEW START Treaty had replaced a previous START Treaty, which was in force between the two countries between 1994-2009.) In February 2023, however, Russia suspended its participation in the NEW START Treaty.</p>
          <p>
      Three UN General Assembly Special Sessions on Disarmament (SSOD) have been convened, in 1978, 1982 and 1988, and a fourth is envisaged. UNODA extends substantive support to the UN 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.409">Disarmament Commission</xr>
      , which formulates relevant consensus guidelines, principles and recommendations. In November 2019 the Office released a set of revised Integrated Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration Standards (IDDRS, first issued in 2004)—aimed at unifying disarmament, demobilization and reintegration processes across relevant agencies in the UN system.
    </p>
          <p>In April 2023 UNODA reported that in 2022—against a background of heightened tensions between nuclear-weapon states and of new threats arising from technological advancements—global military spending increased to US&#8201;$2,240,000m., the highest level for three decades.</p>
          <int-org-section id="UNODA.IO.WMD.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Weapons of Mass Destruction</heading>
               <p>UNODA’s WMD Branch provides substantive support with respect to the disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. Multilateral treaties addressing nuclear weapons control include the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (known also as the Non-Proliferation Treaty or NPT); the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and Under Water (known as the Partial Test Ban Treaty), which entered into force in October 1993, and at January 2024 had 125 states parties; the Treaty on the Prohibition of the Emplacement of Nuclear Weapons and Other Weapons of Mass Destruction on the Sea-Bed and the Ocean Floor and in the Subsoil Thereof (the Sea-Bed Treaty), which entered into force in 1972, and had been ratified by 94 states at January 2024; and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), which is not yet in force.</p>
               <p>The NPT, which entered into force in 1970, designates five `nuclear weapon states’—China, France, Russia, the United Kingdom and the USA (they are also the permanent members of the UN Security Council)—which have expressed commitment to the goal of complete nuclear disarmament under effective international controls. At January 2024 the five nuclear weapon states and 186 non-nuclear weapon states were parties to the NPT. The Treaty requires each member `non-nuclear weapon state' (one which had not manufactured and exploded a nuclear weapon or other nuclear explosive device prior to 1 January 1967) to conclude a comprehensive safeguards agreement (CSA) with the IAEA. NPT review conferences are held at five-yearly intervals. In May 1995 the review conference agreed to extend the NPT indefinitely. Participants at the 10th NPT review conference, held at UN headquarters in August 2022, failed to achieve consensus on a final document, reportedly owing to Russia’s disapproval of proposed references to the ongoing war in Ukraine. The first session of the preparatory committee for the next (2026) review conference was convened in July 2023.</p>
               <p>
        In July 2017 122 UN member states (excluding, 
        <i>inter alia,</i>
         the five nuclear weapon states and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea—North Korea) adopted the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons (TPNW), banning the development, testing, production, acquisition and stockpiling of nuclear weaponry and other explosive devices. The TPNW entered into force on 22 January 2021, and by January 2024 had 69 states parties. The second conference of its states parties was convened in late November-early December 2023. Voluntary international arrangements that seek to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons or their means of delivery include: the Hague Code of Conduct against Ballistic Missile Proliferation (agreed in 2002), the Missile Technology Control Regime (1989), the Nuclear Suppliers Group (1984), and the Wassenaar Arrangement concerning export controls for conventional arms and dual-use goods and technologies (1996).
      </p>
               <p>Regional nuclear-weapon-free-zones (NWFZs) have been established to strengthen global non-proliferation and disarmament efforts, including in Latin America and the Caribbean, the South Pacific, South East Asia, Africa, Central Asia and (self-declared) Mongolia. The inaugural session of a Conference on the Establishment of a Middle East Zone Free of Nuclear Weapons and Other WMD was convened in November 2019. Israel did not participate. (A fourth session was held in November 2023.) An online platform to facilitate collaboration between NWFZs was launched in February 2021.</p>
               <p>
        The CTBT was opened for signature in September 1996, and was to enter into international law upon ratification by all 44 nations with known nuclear capabilities (35 such ratifications were in effect as at January 2024). A verification body, the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO), was to be established upon the Treaty’s entry into effect; meanwhile, an interim 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="GOVTPOL.IO.166">Preparatory Commission for the CTBTO (CTBTO PrepCom)</xr>
        , based in Vienna, became operational. In October 2023 Russia’s envoy to the CTBTO announced that Russia would revoke its ratification of the CTBT (which had been effected in 2000)—to ensure parity with the USA, which had signed but not as yet ratified the treaty. Formal legislation to revoke the ratification was accelerated through the Russian parliament and signed into effect by President Putin in November 2023. An International Day against Nuclear Tests is observed annually on 29 August.
      </p>
               <p>A Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and on their Destruction (`Biological Weapons Convention’—BWC) entered into force in 1975 (and had 185 states parties by January 2024). In 2006, in accordance with a decision of the Sixth Review Conference of the Convention, a BWC implementation support unit was established at UNODA’s WMD Branch. In September 2011 an agreement was finalized governing co-operation between UNODA and the OPCW, which oversees the implementation of the 1997 Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC). The CWC, which had 193 states parties at January 2024, provides for the elimination of all chemical weapons, under international control. In April 2021 the 25th COP of the CWC decided to suspend Syria’s voting rights under the Convention. UNODA has contributed to updating relevant technical guidelines and to the roster of experts and laboratories that maintain an operational readiness within the UN Secretary-General’s Mechanism for Investigation of Alleged Use of Chemical and Biological Weapons.</p>
               <p usage="edio">Since 2017 UNODA has helped to organize a biennial International Conference on Global Biosecurity Challenges, in support of the BWC (in 2023 held in Sochi, Russia, in June). </p>
               <p>UNODA provides support to the Committee established pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution 1540 (2004), which aims to prevent the provision of any form of support to non-state actors that attempt to develop, produce, acquire, transport, transfer, possess or use nuclear, chemical or biological weapons and their delivery vehicles, with a particular focus on preventing acts of terrorism. The Office has regularly organized regional and thematic workshops to promote the implementation of Resolution 1540, and has assisted states with the formulation of related national capacity-building initiatives and implementation plans. In October 2019 UNODA launched an online training course aimed at promoting awareness and understanding in member states of the provisions and objectives of Resolution 1540. UNODA administers the Trust Fund for Global and Regional Disarmament Activities, which funds projects aimed at advancing the implementation of Resolution 1540.</p>
               <p>The Nuclear Terrorism Convention, which was adopted by the UN General Assembly in April 2005, entered into force in July 2007, and had 124 signatories at January 2024, promotes information sharing between states parties, as well as the provision of mutual assistance with criminal investigations and extradition proceedings.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="UNODA.IO.CONVENTIONAL-ARMS.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Conventional Arms</heading>
               <p>UNODA’s Conventional Arms Branch supported the process that led to the adoption in April 2013 by the UN General Assembly of the Arms Trade Treaty (ATT), a legally binding instrument guiding the import, export and transfer of conventional weapons. The ATT aims to ban weapons trading conducted in violation of arms embargoes; where weapons might be used in perpetrating acts of genocide or terrorism, or other crimes against humanity; or where they might enter the black market. The Treaty’s scope covers battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, attack helicopters, combat aircraft, large-calibre artillery systems, warships, missiles and missile launchers, and small arms and light weapons. The ATT entered into force on 24 December 2014. The second Conference of the Parties (COP) to the ATT, held in August 2016, established an ATT Voluntary Trust Fund. In April 2019 US President Trump withdrew the USA’s signature from the ATT (the USA had not ratified the Treaty). At the sixth COP, convened in August 2020, a Diversion Information Exchange Forum (DIEF) was launched, representing an informal platform for the sharing of information on the diversion of arms to the illicit market, or for otherwise unauthorized end use. The ninth COP took place in Geneva, in August 2023. As at January 2024 the ATT had 112 states parties.</p>
               <p>The Conventional Arms Branch chairs the UN Coordinating Action on Small Arms (CASA)—a UN system-wide internal co-ordination mechanism relating to ammunition, small arms, the arms trade and other armed violence-related issues. UNODA also supports the UN Programme of Action (PoA) to prevent, combat and eradicate the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons in all its aspects, which was adopted in 2001. The PoA’s associated legally-binding International Instrument to Enable States to Identify and Trace, in a Timely and Reliable Manner, Illicit Small Arms and Light Weapons (2005) aims to ensure that small arms are efficiently marked and recorded. The UN Trust Facility Supporting Cooperation on Arms Regulation (UNSCAR) was launched in 2013 to support the control of conventional arms. In July 2005 the Firearms Protocol to the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime entered into force, addressing the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, their parts, components and ammunition. In October 2019 a UN SALIENT (Saving Lives Entity) fund was established to finance initiatives aimed at linking the regulation of small arms to development.</p>
               <p usage="edio">
        UN Basic Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials were adopted in 1990. A Global Week of Action against Gun Violence, sponsored by the International Action Network on Small Arms (which has observer status with 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.483">ECOSOC</xr>
        ) is held annually in May.
      </p>
               <p>The Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons (CCW) which may be Deemed to be Excessively Injurious or to have Indiscriminate Effects (also known as the Inhumane Weapons Convention) was adopted by a UN Conference in October 1980 and entered into force in December 1983. It has five protocols, on: Non-Detectable Fragments; Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Mines, Booby Traps and Other Devices; Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Incendiary Weapons; Blinding Laser Weapons; and Explosive Remnants of War.</p>
               <p>
        In December 2016 123 states participating in the Fifth Review Conference of the CCW—held in Geneva, under UNODA auspices—established a Group of Governmental Experts (GGE) on Lethal Autonomous Weapons Systems (LAWS: i.e. weaponry controlled by artificial intelligence—AI). They determined to initiate formal negotiations aimed at integrating controls over LAWS into the CCW. The People’s Republic of China, Russia and the USA were reported to have made significant recent progress in developing LAWS. In August 2017 more than 100 specialists on robotics and AI issued an open letter to the UN stating that autonomous weapons ought to be banned outright. In August 2019 the GGE issued 11 Principles on LAWS, which emphasized that international law must be applied to such systems, and that any decision to use them must be made by a human being. A Declaration on LAWS, upholding the 11 Principles, was prepared by France and Germany, and opened for signature in September 2019, in the framework of a new informal Alliance on Multilateralism. The December 2016 CCW review conference also agreed to initiate discussions on regulating incendiary weapons (which had been used to devastating effect in the ongoing Syrian civil war). The sixth CCW review conference, held in December 2021, failed to advance discussion on drafting legislation to outlaw LAWS. The outcome was criticized by 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XH.IO.TXT.3">Amnesty International</xr>
        , 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XH.IO.TXT.11.1">Human Rights Watch</xr>
         and other members of the steering committee of the Stop Killer Robots coalition (established in 2013). In October 2023 the UN Secretary-General and the President of the International Committee of the Red Cross jointly released a statement that called on world leaders urgently to establish new international rules on LAWS, as a preventive measure to protect future generations of humanity.
      </p>
               <p>UNODA promotes capacity building for national governments to address the increasing proliferation of improvised explosive devices (IEDs). It has noted that IEDs have become an addition or alternative to small arms in countries with rigid small arms control mechanisms, and that, furthermore, information on their construction and use is available on the internet and has been spread among terrorist cells in their home countries by repatriated foreign terrorist fighters.</p>
               <p>Landmines (comprising anti-vehicle mines and anti-personnel mines), and cluster munitions are a significant cause of civilian casualties in conflict situations. The UN Secretary-General has urged all states to take action to regulate anti-vehicle mines. By January 2024 the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on their Destruction—which entered into force in 1999—had been ratified by 164 states. The Convention on Cluster Munitions, which entered into force in August 2010, prohibited all use, stockpiling, production or transfer of cluster munitions. It had 112 states parties by January 2024. The UN Secretary-General and UN General Assembly regularly consider the possible health risks to civilians of the use of depleted uranium in warfare.</p>
               <p>The first edition of a set of UN International Ammunition Technical Guidelines (IATG) was finalized in 2011, to assist countries with improving the security and safety of ammunition storage sites. In June 2023 an Open-ended Working Group—that had been established by the UN General Assembly in December 2021—finalized a draft voluntary Global Framework for Through-life Conventional Ammunition Management. (Russia and Belarus dissociated themselves from the Framework.) The UN’s SaferGuard Programme identifies technical specialists to facilitate the prompt provision of support to governments in high-risk situations involving ammunition. Under the UN SaferGuard Quick-Response Mechanism, UNODA organizes technical assessments, ammunition clearance, and urgent stockpile management assistance.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="UNODA.REGIONAL-DISARMAMENT.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Regional Disarmament</heading>
               <p>
        UNODA’s Regional Disarmament, Information and Outreach Branch serves more than 135 countries, providing disarmament-related training and capacity building support, technical assistance, and outreach and advocacy. There are three UN Regional Centres for Peace and Disarmament: for Africa (based in Lomé, Togo), for Latin America and the Caribbean (in Lima, Peru) and for Asia and the Pacific (in Kathmandu, Nepal). 
        
        UNODA participates in multi-agency processes, such as the UN Armed Violence Prevention Programme, the Inter-Agency Task Force on Security Sector Reform, and the Standing Committee on Women, Peace and Security. The Branch and Regional Centres co-operate closely with regional and subregional organizations on relevant policy issues and in the implementation of joint initiatives.
      </p>
               <p>UNODA and the Republic of Korea organize an annual Republic of Korea-UN joint Conference on Disarmament and Non-Proliferation Issues. The 22nd edition was held in December 2023, in Geneva, and addressed `Governance of AI in the Military Domain’.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="UNODA.IO.TRANSP.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Transparency and Confidence-Building</heading>
               <p>UNODA supports the development of effective military confidence building measures. The UN Register of Conventional Arms, established in 1991, collates voluntary reports from member states of their imports and exports of arms, in the following categories: battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, large calibre artillery systems, combat aircraft and unmanned combat aerial vehicles, attack helicopters, warships, missiles and missile launchers, small arms and light weapons. Member states are also requested to submit data on their annual military spending, including that of security measures in outer space, to the UN Report on Military Expenditures.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="UNODA.IO.OTHER.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Other Disarmament Issues</heading>
               <p>UNODA has mainstreamed a gender perspective into its work. In 2019 and 2021 the UN General Assembly adopted resolutions on `Youth, disarmament and non-proliferation’, urging increased participation by young people in relevant discussions. UNODA maintains a Disarmament Education Dashboard (initiated in 2016) and a youth4disarmament digital platform (launched in 2020). The Office initiated a Disarmament Education Stategy in March 2023. In December the inaugural meeting was convened, with participation by 100 young people, of a new global training programme, the UNODA-managed Youth Leader Fund for a World without Nuclear Weapons.</p>
               <p usage="edio">The UN Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space, including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies (the `Outer Space Treaty’), which entered into force in 1967, prohibits states parties from deploying WMD on celestial bodies or elsewhere in outer space.</p>
               <p>UNODA participates in the UN Global Counter-Terrorism Coordination Compact Committee (established in 2018), and has engaged in particular in the Committee’s working group on emerging threats and critical infrastructure protection. In May 2023, briefing an Arria-formula (i.e. informal) meeting of the UN Security Council on the responsibility and responsiveness of states to cyber attacks on critical infrastructure, the High Representative noted that the number of publicly reported state-sponsored cyber incidents surged fifteen-fold from 2005 to 2020.</p>
               <p>
        In August 2023 UNODA initiated a Geneva Disarmament Conversation Series (GDCS); by the end of that year GDCS sessions had addressed, 
        <i>inter alia,</i>
         developments in AI, and co-ordination in addressing biorisks.
      </p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="UNODA.IO.FINANCE.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Finance</heading>
          <p>UNODA receives an allocation from the regular budget of the UN. Some US&#8201;$16.7m. was provisionally allocated to disarmament in 2024.</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="UNODA.IO.PUBLS.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Publications</heading>
          <publ-list>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Disarmament Study Series</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>United Nations Disarmament Yearbook</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>UNODA Update</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">quarterly</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
          </publ-list>
          <p>Other papers, reports, factsheets.</p>
     </int-org-section>
</int-org-entry>