<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="IO-UN.1170" id-root="io-un.1170" iso="io-un.1170" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime</org-entry-name>
               <abbr>UNODC</abbr>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">UNITED NATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb">United Nations (Other Bodies)</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="edio">United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>Vienna International Centre, POB 500, 1400 Vienna, Austria</verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <telephone alsofax="N">(1) 26060-0</telephone>
               <fax>(1) 263-33-89</fax>
               <email>info@unodc.org</email>
               <internet>www.unodc.org</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p id="IO-UN.1171">UNODC was established in November 1997 (as the Office for Drug Control and Crime Prevention—ODCCP) to strengthen the UN's integrated approach to issues relating to drug control, crime prevention and international terrorism; the Office was renamed in October 2002.</p>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.UNODC.001" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <heading-note>April 2024</heading-note>
          <p>
      UNODC is guided by resolutions of the 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.494">Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice</xr>
       and the 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.496">Commission on Narcotic Drugs</xr>
       (both are functional commissions of the UN’s 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.483">Economic and Social Council—ECOSOC)</xr>
      . In 2009 the Commissions tasked a standing open-ended intergovernmental working group (FinGov) with improving the governance and financial situation of UNODC; FinGov’s mandate was extended in 2022 for an unlimited time period. The Office of the Executive Director provides an interface between the two Commissions and their subsidiary bodies. It has divisions of Management (comprising services of financial resources management, human resources management, and of information technology and communications); Operations (including a Border Management Branch, and regional sections); Policy Analysis and Public Affairs (with branches of Policy Support, Research and Trend Analysis, and of Drugs, Laboratory and Scientific Services); and Treaty Affairs (including an Organized Crime and Illicit Trafficking Branch, a Terrorism Prevention Branch, a Corruption and Economic Crime Branch, the Secretariat of the International Narcotics Control Board, and a Secretariat to the Governing Bodies). 
    </p>
          <dir-list>
               <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                    <dir-entry-name>Executive Director</dir-entry-name>
                    <person-group>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Ghada Fathi</forename>
                                   <surname>Waly</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Egypt</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </person-group>
               </dir-entry>
          </dir-list>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UNODC.012" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>UNODC Offices</heading>
               <p>UNODC liaison offices are located in Brussels, Belgium and New York, USA, while two liaison and partnership offices are located in Brasília, Brazil and in Mexico City, Mexico. There are also eight regional offices (covering Central America and the Caribbean, Central Asia, East Africa, the Middle East and North Africa, South Asia, South East Asia and the Pacific, South East Europe, Southern Africa, and West and Central Africa); seven country offices (located in Afghanistan, Bolivia, Colombia, Iran, Nigeria, Pakistan and Peru); and 18 field presences that cover 98 countries. UNODC’s Executive Director is also the Director-General of the UN Office in Vienna.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.UNODC.002" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Activities</heading>
          <!--~drug prevention, treatment and care -->
          <p>
      UNODC aims to protect social systems based on the rule of law and good governance, and to further the UN’s 
      <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UNDP.001">2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development</xr>
       and set of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), through the prevention of interconnected harmful activities such as transnational organized crime; cybercrime; illicit trafficking in drugs, human beings and firearms; illegal drug use; corruption; piracy; and terrorism. The Office leads related regional and transnational initiatives; conducts research and trend analysis to support policymaking; offers assistance in the setting of best practices; maintains an e-learning service; provides laboratory forensic sciences services; extends technical co-operation and field support; assists governments with building capacity to establish and sustain safe, stable societies; and provides secretariat services and substantive support to UN intergovernmental bodies, to the UN Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, and to the International Narcotics Control Board (INCB—an independent body responsible for promoting and monitoring government compliance with the provisions of the drug control treaties). It also develops integrated approaches to eradicate or alleviate conditions that encourage criminal activities.
    </p>
          <p>UNODC’s guiding strategic framework during 2021-25 included the following focus areas: addressing the world drug problem; countering organized crime, including by facilitating the implementation of the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime (UNTOC, also known as the Palermo Convention, which entered into force in September 2003) and other relevant UN conventions; countering corruption, in accordance with the UN Convention against Corruption (UNCAC, which entered into effect in December 2005), and economic crime; preventing terrorism; and crime prevention and criminal justice. A UNODC Youth Empowerment Accelerator Framework was initiated in support of the 2021-25 strategic framework.</p>
          <int-org-section id="UNODC.IO.01" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>World Drug Problem</heading>
               <p>UNODC assists countries to adapt their national legislation and drug policies to facilitate their compliance with relevant conventions, and to enhance co-ordinated intergovernmental efforts to control the movement of narcotic drugs. It supports member states in implementing drug use prevention strategies, and in the provision of treatment, health care, social protection and rehabilitation. The Office supports member states in implementing the Outcome Document on the world drug problem that was adopted in April 2016 by a UN General Assembly Special Session (UNGASS 2016). This focused (and made more than 100 operational recommendations) on demand and supply reduction; availability of internationally controlled substances for scientific or medical purposes; human rights; challenges and trends; and international co-operation and development. </p>
               <p>
        UNODC services meetings of the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.496">UN Commission on Narcotic Drugs (CND)</xr>
        , the main policymaking organ within the UN system on issues relating to international drug abuse control. The CND was established in 1946, and comprises Heads of National Drug Law Enforcement Agencies (HONLEAs) for Africa, Asia and the Pacific, Europe, and Latin America and the Caribbean, and a Sub-Commission on Illicit Drug Traffic and Related Matters in the Near and Middle East. In 2019 the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.496">CND,</xr>
         adopted a Ministerial Declaration on strengthening actions at all levels, over the next 10 years, to accelerate the implementation of joint commitments to counter the world drug problem; a mid-term review of the 2019 Ministerial Declaration was undertaken during the CND’s 67th session in March 2024.
      </p>
               <!--Global Youth Network against Drug Abuse-->
               <p>
        UNODC compiles an annual report assessing the world drug situation. The 
        <publ-name>World Drug Report 2023</publ-name>
         was issued in June, in the form of a web-based element and booklets that comprised: (i) an executive summary; and (ii) a thematic assessment, including sections on synthetic drugs; psychedelics; regulatory approaches to the medical use of herbal cannabis; the nexus between drugs and crimes that harm the environment (such as illegal logging, mining, land occupation, and wildlife trafficking) in the Amazon Basin; substance use disorders in humanitarian settings; the use of the dark web and (encrypted) social media for drug supply; and drug market developments and trends. The report estimated that in 2021 more than 296m. people worldwide aged 15-64 used drugs (cannabis: 219m. users, non-medical opioids: 60m., amphetamines: 36m., cocaine: 22m.)—compared with an estimated total of 240m. drug users in 2011. Some 39.5m. people globally were estimated to have been suffering from drug disorders in 2021, with treatment needs predominantly unmet. It was reported that in 2019 70% of deaths arising from drug use disorders had been attributable to opioid use. An estimated 13.2m. people globally were believed to have injected drugs in 2021, of whom one-half were reported to be living with Hepatitis C. It was noted that trade in illicit drugs was financing militant activities in the Sahel, and was exacerbating extreme instability in Haiti.
      </p>
               <p>
        UNODC supports national monitoring systems that assess the extent and evolution of illicit crops in the world's principal plant-based drug growing countries: Colombia, Peru and Bolivia (coca); Myanmar, Afghanistan and Mexico (opium); and Morocco (cannabis). Crop surveys are facilitated by a combination of satellite sensing (with the assistance of the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="ESA.IO">European Space Agency</xr>
        ), aerial surveillance, and ground-level surveys.
      </p>
               <p>
        A 
        <publ-name>Global Report on Cocaine 2023,</publ-name>
         issued in March of that year, observed that coca cultivation in 2021 was 35% higher than in 2020, while demand for cocaine had risen steadily in recent years in many regions. Cocaine was reportedly increasingly trafficked through countries in southeastern Europe and West and Central Africa.
      </p>
               <p>
        In November 2023 UNODC estimated that, as a consequence of anti-narcotic measures imposed in April 2022 by the Taliban regime in Afghanistan, the area of that country’s land surface that was dedicated to opium poppy cultivation had shrunk in 2023 to 10,800 ha, from 233,000 ha in 2022; the supply of opium from Afghanistan had, accordingly, fallen dramatically, to 333 metric ton
        
        s thus far in 2023, from 6,200 metric tons in 2022. Many Afghan farmers were reportedly diversifying into wheat cultivation. UNODC reported in December that during 2023 Myanmar had overtaken Afghanistan as the principal global opium producer; some 47,000 ha were reported to be under poppy cultivation in Myanmar in that year.
      </p>
               <p>An online UNODC Early Warning Advisory portal provides basic data on novel psychoactive substances (NPS). UNODC also maintains a UN Synthetic Drugs Toolkit; a module on advanced investigative techniques for law enforcers was added to the Toolkit in March 2023. A UNODC Synthetic Drug Strategy (2021-25) was launched in November 2021, with four spheres of action: multilateralism and international co-operation; early warning on emerging synthetic drug threats; science-informed health responses (with a particular focus on supporting women and youth); and counter-narcotic interventions. In November 2023 UNODC supported the 10th annual International Conference on NPS, convened in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.</p>
               <p>
                    <publ-name>Synthetic Drugs in East and Southeast Asia: latest developments and challenges 2023</publ-name>
        , issued by UNODC in June of that year, reported that high volumes of methamphetamine were continuing to be produced in and trafficked from that region, while output there of other synthetic drugs, such as ketamine, had expanded. In September UNODC reported that seizures of methamphetamine trafficked from Afghanistan and neighbouring countries had increased twelve-fold during the period 2017-21.
      </p>
               <p usage="edio">
        UNODC is a co-sponsor of the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-WHO.2506">Joint Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS)</xr>
        . In February 2017 UNODC and the World Health Organization (WHO) concluded an agreement aimed at fostering greater collaboration and sharing of knowledge and best practices in focus areas including the prevention and treatment of drug use, analysis of NPS, access to controlled drugs, and treatment and support for HIV, hepatitis and tuberculosis.
      </p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UNODC.3" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice</heading>
               <p>
        UNODC services meetings of the policy-setting Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice (CCPCJ—established in 1992 as a subsidiary of ECOSOC). UNODC promotes research and undertakes studies of new forms of crime prevention, in collaboration with the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="SL607783">UN Interregional Crime and Justice Research Institute</xr>
        . The Office’s online 
        <publ-name>dataUNODC</publ-name>
         comprises special data collections on topics such as criminal justice, drug demand and supply, trafficking in persons, persons held in prisons, financial crime, wildlife crime, and intentional homicide. The Office has contributed to the organization of regional preparatory meetings for successive UN Congresses on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice and undertakes a key participatory role. The 13th Congress, convened in Doha, Qatar, in April 2015, adopted the Doha Declaration on promoting justice for all and integrating crime prevention measures into the post-2015 sustainable development agenda. In March 2016 UNODC, with support from the Qatari Government, initiated a Global Programme for the Implementation of the Doha Declaration. It had four central components and associated programmes: education for justice; youth crime prevention through sport; prisoner rehabilitation; and judicial integrity. The 14th Congress, held in March 2021, in Kyoto, Japan, in a hybrid (partly virtual) format, issued a Kyoto Declaration, which acknowledged the increasingly complex and transnational nature of crime; emphasized the need to evolve means of supporting the enhancement of law enforcement and criminal justice systems in developing countries; and reaffirmed commitment to achieving the SDGs.
      </p>
               <p>UNODC focuses on strengthening the rule of law to underpin the implementation of UNTOC and its Protocols (in particular in conflict and post-conflict countries), breaking cycles of organized crime, and combating urban and armed crime, against a background of globalization where, increasingly, international approaches to combating organized crime are required. The Office maintains the online SHERLOC portal, which facilitates the dissemination of information relevant to the implementation of UNTOC, its Protocols, and the international legal framework against terrorism.</p>
               <p>The Office oversees the application of international standards and norms relating to criminal justice, for example the Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners, Conventions against Torture, and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, and Safeguards Guaranteeing the Protection of the Rights of Those Facing the Death Penalty. UNODC’s Model Law on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, adopted in 2007, was amended in 2022 to include provisions on electronic evidence and the use of special investigative techniques. The Office provides assistance to states in the area of penal reform, placing particular emphasis on training prison staff and responding to the needs of women and vulnerable prisoners. A UNODC Global Judicial Integrity Network was initiated in April 2018.</p>
               <p>The Office has piloted an Urban Safety Governance Assessment initiative in St Michael and Christ Church (Barbados), Nairobi (Kenya), Iztapalapa (in Mexico City, Mexico), and Tashkent (Uzbekistan), with the aim of identifying local challenges and priority areas of intervention; enhancing the capacity of officials and institutions; strengthening co-ordination and partnerships between relevant stakeholders; and enhancing integrated strategy and policy development.</p>
               <p>
        UNODC’s 
        <publ-name>Global Study on Homicide 2023</publ-name>
        , issued in December, found that intentional homicide accounted for around 440,000 deaths worldwide during 2019-21, more than the number of killings caused by violent conflict and terrorism combined. Homicides related to organized crime and gangs accounted for some 22% of homicides globally and for about one-half in the Americas. Deliberate killings of human rights defenders, environmental defenders, journalists, humanitarian aid workers and community leaders accounted for 9% of the global total of homicides.
      </p>
               <p>UNODC’s Global Programme to End Violence Against Children (END VAC) was initiated in 2015. It supports member states to prevent and respond to violence against children, from a crime prevention and criminal justice perspective.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UNODC.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Transnational Organized Crime</heading>
               <p>Trafficking—for example, in illicit drugs, in human beings, in natural resources, weaponry, and counterfeit goods—is regarded as the primary `pillar’ of global criminal networks that operate across international borders, while profits raised through transnational organized criminal activity are, in some cases, also used to support terrorist groupings. UNODC’s work in combating organized crime and illicit trafficking focuses on the implementation of relevant UN conventions and protocols, which cover areas such as law enforcement and extradition, the development of national legislation aimed at combating transnational crime, and the promotion of frameworks for assistance. UNTOC has three additional Protocols: the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, especially Women and Children (which entered into force in December 2003); the Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land, Air and Sea (entered into force in January 2004); and the Protocol against the Illicit Manufacturing and Trafficking in Firearms, Their Parts and Components and Ammunition (entered into force in July 2005).</p>
               <p>
        In October 2004 UNODC and the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XL.IO.TXT.84">World Customs Organization (WCO)</xr>
         launched a joint Container Control Programme (CCP) aimed at improving port control measures in developing countries and building local capacity to detect illicit container shipments. Under a CCP-Air arm of the programme, initiated in 2015, in co-operation with the International Civil Aviation Association, air cargo control units are installed at airports. A CCP Women's Network was established in that year. By 2024 more than 120 control units had been established under the CCP at seaports and airports in more than 70 countries.
      </p>
               <p>
        A 
        <publ-name>Conceptual Framework for the Statistical Measurement of Illicit Financial Flows</publ-name>
         was issued in October 2020 jointly by UNODC and the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.1275">UN Commission on Trade and Development</xr>
        .
      </p>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Cybercrime</heading>
                    <p>UNODC maintains the Cybercrime Repository, a database of legislation, case law and lessons-learned relating to cybercrime and electronic evidence. Borderless internet-related crimes occur in the visible `clearnet’ (accounting for about 4% of the total internet), and also in `darknet’ websites hidden in the Deep Web (the remaining vast majority of the internet that is not found by most search engines), and they include assaults on the availability, confidentiality and integrity of computer data and systems; offences related to content and to infringements of copyright; the dissemination of malware and ransomware; cyber takeovers of critical national infrastructure; `DDOS’ attacks that involve maliciously removing a website from the active web; online fraud; money laundering; black market weapons sales; cyber-disseminated child sexual abuse; and so-called `sextortion’. The UNODC Global Programme on Cybercrime supports member states, particularly developing countries, to prevent and to combat cybercrime. In May 2021 the UN General Assembly resolved that a Convention on Cybercrime should be developed. Accordingly, an Ad Hoc Committee to Elaborate a Comprehensive International Convention on Countering the Use of Information and Communications Technologies for Criminal Purposes was established. By February 2024 seven sessions of negotiations had been convened by the Committee.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Trafficking in Cultural Property</heading>
                    <p>
          In collaboration with other agencies, such as UNESCO, INTERPOL, the International Council of Museums, and the WCO, UNODC supports initiatives in member states aimed at strengthening national frameworks, judicial authorities, and developing law enforcement capabilities, with a view to enhancing the collective capacity to combat the illicit trade in cultural property (which is used, 
          <i>inter alia,</i>
           by terrorist networks as a means of raising finance).
        </p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Drug Trafficking</heading>
                    <p>UNODC promotes the implementation of the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs; the 1971 Convention on Psychotropic Substances; and the 1988 UN Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (which focused, for the first time, on the international control of precursors, outlining measures for preventing the distribution of chemicals often used in manufacturing drugs, and dividing these into more and less strictly controlled substances). Among other important provisions, these treaties aim to restrict severely the production of narcotic drugs, while ensuring an adequate supply for medical and scientific purposes, to prevent profits obtained from the illegal sale of drugs being diverted into legal usage and to secure the extradition of drug traffickers and the transfer of proceedings for criminal prosecution.</p>
                    <p>UNODC collates data (reported by member states under an Annual Reports Questionnaires mechanism) on trends in drug trafficking, including in relation to arrests, seizures of illicit drugs, price changes, and purity levels, as well as on the manufacture of controlled substances. The Office’s Alternative Development Programme supports projects to create legal sources of income for farmers economically dependent on the production of illicit narcotic crops, and promotes linkages between drug control policies and development. An Airport Communication Project, AIRCOP, was launched in 2010, jointly by UNODC, INTERPOL and the WCO. It aims to improve airport intelligence and instantaneous data sharing at airports in Latin America, Africa and Europe, with a view to halting the air transportation of illegal drugs from Latin America through West Africa. Joint Airport Interdiction Task Forces, linked to international law enforcement communications networks and databases, have also been established under AIRCOP.</p>
                    <p>UNODC’s Corruption and Economic Crime Branch and Research and Trend Analysis Branch support the Border Management Branch in implementing the Global Programme on Criminal Disruption (CRIMJUST), initiated in 2016 to assist states that are located along the supply chains of illicitly trafficked commodities to disrupt their flow. A third phase of CRIMJUST was initiated in 2023.</p>
                    <p>
          The INCB promotes co-ordinated global action to prevent illicit sales through the darknet (see 
          <i>Cybercrime</i>
          ) of internationally controlled prescription drugs by so-called online pharmacies, and of fraudulent medicines. In May 2019 UNODC issued a 
          <publ-name>Guide to Good Legislative Practices on Combating Falsified Medical Product-Related Crime</publ-name>
          .
        </p>
                    <!--Firearms trafficking-->
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Gender and Gender-Based Violence</heading>
                    <p>A second UNODC Strategy for Gender Equality and Women’s Empowerment, covering the period 2022-25, was launched in May 2022. In 2019 UNODC introduced a Global Programme on Strengthening Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Responses to Violence against Women. The Office and UN Women reported in November 2023 that during 2022 nearly 89,000 women and girls were killed globally, 55% by an intimate partner or family member. </p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Human Trafficking</heading>
                    <p>
          UNODC administers a UN Voluntary Trust Fund for Victims of Trafficking in Persons (UNVTF), which awards multi-year grants (amounting to US&#8201;$631,328 in 2022) to specialized civil society organizations that provide critical assistance to survivors in areas such as health, shelter, vocational training, financial inclusion and education. UNODC manages a Blue Heart Campaign, which raises awareness on human trafficking and mobilizes funds for the UNVTF. The Office also maintains a Smuggling of Migrants Knowledge Portal, which facilitates the dissemination of information on the implementation of UNTOC and its Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land, Air and Sea. UNODC and the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="IOM.IO">International Organization for Migration</xr>
           (IOM) launched a Joint Platform on Countering Migrant Smuggling in March 2018. UNODC participates in the Inter-Agency Coordination Group against Trafficking in Persons (ICAT).
        </p>
                    <p>
          UNODC regularly issues reports that assess the worldwide scope of human trafficking and ongoing means of combating it. The seventh 
          <publ-name>Global Report on Trafficking in Persons,</publ-name>
           based on data from 141 countries, and aligned with a UNODC data portal on trafficking, was released in January 2023. It registered a decrease in the detection of trafficking victims and in trafficking-related convictions in 2020, including a decline of 24% in detected trafficking for sexual exploitation—attributing this to the widespread border closures and restrictions on movements imposed in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, and potentially also to the diversion of national resources and focus, that may have pushed trafficking further underground. The report noted that during 2012-21 some 41% of detected trafficking victims had been `self rescued’, having themselves reported their situation to relevant authorities. The pandemic crisis was reported to have rendered more people vulnerable to exploitation. The principal purposes of forced trafficking, globally, were forced labour (38.8%) and sexual exploitation (37.7%).
        </p>
                    <p>The recruitment of children by armed groups has been widely documented, and such groupings have also been found to use human trafficking as a means of financing their activities (for example though exploiting trafficked workers in extractive industries), `rewarding’ their soldiers through the sexual enslavement of women and girls, intimidating and controlling local populations, and increasing their workforces.</p>
                    <p usage="edio">In December 2016 UNODC welcomed a landmark resolution on human trafficking adopted by the UN Security Council which noted that persons fleeing armed conflict are particularly at risk of exploitation, including by people traffickers. Since 2014 a World Day against Trafficking in Persons has been held annually on 30 July.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Identity-related Crime</heading>
                    <p>UNODC develops tools and mechanisms to assist member states with combating the theft and abuse by organized criminal networks (for use in activities that include money laundering, human trafficking, and terrorism) of identity-related information about individuals (that is routinely used for activities such as accessing social benefits, banking, travelling and shopping).</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Nature Crime</heading>
                    <p>
          UNODC defines nature crime as encompassing criminal forms of mining, logging, wildlife trade, fishing, and land conversion, and related illegal activities. In August 2023 UNODC, INTERPOL, and other partners, including international organizations, civil society bodies, governments, law enforcement agencies, and Indigenous peoples and other local communities, established a new Nature Crime Alliance, hosted by the USA-based 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-ENVIR.007">World Resources Institute</xr>
          . This aimed to mobilize funding and strengthen operational capacity to combat nature crime and disrupt related international criminal networks. A Vancouver Statement issued by the founding members of the Alliance termed nature crime one of the largest illicit global economies.
        </p>
                    <p>
          UNODC has emphasized that wildlife crime is driving certain species close to extinction, as well as disturbing fragile ecosystems and adversely affecting local livelihoods and social and economic development. The Office participates—with the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XL.IO.TXT.84">WCO</xr>
          , INTERPOL and the World Bank—in the International Consortium on Combating Wildlife Crime (ICCWC), which was established in 2010, with the aim of combating the poaching of wild animals and illegal trade in wild animals and related products. The Office maintains data on wildlife seizures.
        </p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UNODC.2" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Corruption and Economic Crime</heading>
               <p>
        UNODC assisted with the formulation of UNCAC, which entered into force in December 2005; the implementation of UNCAC in signatory states is monitored under a review mechanism established in November 2009. At January 2024 there were 190 states parties to the Convention. In October 2008 UNODC and INTERPOL signed a joint agreement establishing the Laxenburg, Austria-based International Anti-Corruption Academy, which provides training to police personnel, government officials, academics and representatives of non-governmental organizations and private sector entities. In September 2011 UNODC launched TRACK (Tools and Resources for Anti-Corruption Knowledge), an online anti-corruption portal. A UN General Assembly Special Session Against Corruption was convened in June 2021. In December 2023 the 10th conference of the parties to UNCAC adopted a resolution titled `Atlanta 2023: promoting integrity, accountability and transparency in the fight against corruption’, as well as resolutions on, 
        <i> inter alia,</i>
         measuring corruption and the effectiveness of anti-corruption frameworks; corruption and the private sector; whistle-blower protections; and the linkages between corruption and organized crime. International Anti-Corruption Day is observed annually on 9 December.
      </p>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Money Laundering</heading>
                    <p>The UN Global Programme against Money Laundering (GPML), established in 1999, assists governments to formulate legislation against money laundering and to establish and maintain appropriate frameworks to counter this. GPML activities include the provision of technical assistance, training, and the collection, research and analysis of crime data. GPML, in collaboration with other governmental organizations, law enforcement agencies and academic institutions, co-ordinates the ­International Money Laundering Information Network (IMoLIN), an internet-based information resource. IMoLIN incorporates the Anti-Money Laundering International Database (a comprehensive database on money laundering legislation throughout the world that constituted a key element in the Office’s activities in support of the elaboration of UNTOC). The Stolen Asset Recovery (StAR) initiative, jointly launched by UNODC and the World Bank in 2007, aims to address the theft of public assets from developing countries, and to promote direct government-to-government assistance.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Corruption in Sport</heading>
                    <p>
          In September 2020 UNODC signed a Memorandum of Understanding with FIFA to enhance collaboration in efforts to counter match-fixing and corruption in sport. A joint campaign to encourage football industry stakeholders to report any incidents was launched by the organizations in December. In December 2021 UNODC issued its first 
          <publ-name>Global Report on Corruption in Sport</publ-name>
          , providing analysis of, 
          <i>inter alia</i>
          , competition manipulation, illegal betting, and involvement by organized crime.
        </p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="UNODC.IO.02" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Terrorism Prevention</heading>
               <p>UNODC's Terrorism Prevention Branch researches trends in terrorist activity and connections between terrorism and other crime, and provides legal and technical assistance to countries to improve their capabilities to investigate and prevent acts of terrorism. The Branch supports states in ratifying universal legal instruments against terrorism, and in the development and application of national legislation in support of the implementation of these. A comprehensive global database on global terrorism, including counter-terrorism conventions, national criminal laws and ­relevant case laws, was launched by UNODC in June 2009. A UNODC Roadmap on the Treatment of Children Associated with Terrorist and Violent Extremist Groups was launched in June 2019, within the END VAC framework, with a focus on prevention, rehabilitation and reintegration. In October 2022 UNODC initiated a Global Programme on Preventing and Countering Terrorism, covering the period 2022-27, which aimed to help member states to adhere to the international legal counter-terrorism framework, implement inclusive terrorism prevention policies and practices, and develop more accountable criminal justice institutions.</p>
               <p>
        A UNODC publication 
        <publ-name>The Use of the Internet for Terrorist Purposes</publ-name>
        , issued in October 2012, set out practical guidelines on investigating and prosecuting cases of terrorism involving use of the internet and social media for raising finance; distributing propaganda; recruiting, training and inciting followers; and gathering and disseminating information of practical use in terrorist activities.
      </p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UNODC.6" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Regional Activities</heading>
               <!--Paris Pact Initiative est. 2023 focused on routes from Afghanistan-->
               <!--Proposed South Asian Regional Intelligence and Co-ordination Centre on Transnational Organized Crime-->
               <p>UNODC supports the Central Asia Regional Information and Co-ordination Centre (CARICC), which was established in AlmatI, Kazakhstan, in February 2006, to combat illicit drug trafficking in that region. A UNODC Programme for Central Asia being implemented during 2022-25 was focused on five pillars: Preventing and countering transnational organized crime; Preventing crime, increasing access to justice and strengthening the rule of law; Addressing drug use, increasing treatment of drug use disorders, and preventing HIV/AIDs; Preventing and countering terrorism, violent extremism and radicalization that leads to violence; and Supporting research, trend analysis, policy, advocacy and forensics. A Regional Programme for South Asia was being implemented during 2023-27.</p>
               <p>In March 2023 UNODC and the League of Arab States jointly initiated a Regional Framework for Arab States, covering the period 2023-28; an Arab Plan for Prevention and Reduction of the Dangers of Drugs to Arab Society was also launched at that time.</p>
               <p>In February 2021 UNODC launched a Strategic Vision for Africa 2030, which aimed to develop innovative ways of strengthening crime and corruption prevention, criminal justice systems, drug control, and relevant legislation in the region. In July 2009 UNODC, other UN agencies, the Economic Community of West African States and INTERPOL launched the West Africa Coast Initiative (WACI), which aimed to build national and regional capacities to combat drug trafficking and organized crime in, initially, four post-conflict countries: Côte d'Ivoire, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia and Sierra Leone. In February 2010 the participating countries signed the `WACI Freetown Commitment’, endorsing the implementation of the initiative, and agreeing to establish specialized transnational crime units on their territories. WACI activities were subsequently expanded to Guinea.</p>
               <p>In February 2022 UNODC launched a Strategic Vision for Latin America and the Caribbean covering the period 2022-25. This provided a roadmap for addressing challenges in four thematic areas: Countering corruption and economic crime; Combating organized crime; Tackling the world drug problem; and Enhancing crime prevention and criminal justice. Project Turquesa, aimed at combating human trafficking and migrant smuggling in the Americas, was jointly initiated by UNODC and INTERPOL in July 2023.</p>
               <!--~In July 2013 UNODC initiated a Voluntary Reporting System on Migrant Smuggling and Related Conduct (VRS-MSRC) in South-East Asia Haiti-->
               <!--~PATROL-->
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1187" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Finance</heading>
          <p id="IO-UN.1188">UNODC receives an allocation from the regular budget of the UN (US&#8201;$23.9m. in 2024), although voluntary contributions from member states and private organizations represent the majority (about 90%) of its resources.</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-UN.1189" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Publications</heading>
          <publ-list>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Annual Report</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Global Report on Crime and Justice</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Global Report on Trafficking in Persons</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">annually</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>World Drug Report</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">annually</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>World Wildlife Crime Report</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
          </publ-list>
          <p>Other thematic or regional reports.</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <!--8.iv.24: 4,863 words-->
</int-org-entry>