<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="UNOOSA.IO" id-root="unoosa.io" iso="unoosa.io" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs</org-entry-name>
               <abbr>UNOOSA</abbr>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">UNITED NATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb">United Nations (Other Bodies)</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="edio">United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>Vienna International Centre, Wagramerstr. 5, 1220 Vienna, Austria</verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <telephone alsofax="N">(1) 26060-84950</telephone>
               <fax>(1) 26060-5830</fax>
               <internet>www.unoosa.org</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p id="UNOOSA-IO.43">UNOOSA was established in 1992 to promote peaceful uses of outer space and space science and technology, with a view to fostering sustainable economic and social development. UNOOSA acts as the Secretariat of the ad hoc UN Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space.</p>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="UNOOSA.IO.2" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <heading-note>April 2024</heading-note>
          <p>UNOOSA, which forms part of the UN Office in Vienna, comprises an Office of the Director (which oversees and co-ordinates the entity’s strategic direction and operational priorities, and manages external communications, advocacy and partnerships); a Committee, Policy and Legal Affairs (CPLA); a Space Applications Section; the UN Platform for Space-Based Information for Disaster Management and Emergency Response—which has subsidiary offices in Beijing (People’s Republic of China), Bonn (Germany) and Vienna; and the Executive Secretariat of the International Committee on Global Navigation Satellite Systems. UNOOSA’s Director is assisted by a Senior Adviser on Space Science and Education.</p>
          <dir-list>
               <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                    <dir-entry-name>Director</dir-entry-name>
                    <person-group>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Aarti</forename>
                                   <surname>Holla-Maini</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>UK</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </person-group>
               </dir-entry>
          </dir-list>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="UNOOSA.IO.4" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Activities</heading>
          <int-org-section id="UNOOSA.IO.UNSPACE.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>UN-Space</heading>
               <p>
        UNOOSA leads 
        <xr id="UN-SPACE.IO.1" pageref="N">UN-Space</xr>
        —an inter-agency mechanism that convenes annual sessions of the Inter-Agency Meeting on Outer Space Activities to address emergent space issues and technologies. UN-Space also organizes broader informal stakeholder consultations.
      </p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="UNOOSA.IO.GNSS.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS)</heading>
               <p>UNOOSA serves as the executive secretariat of the International Committee on GNSS (ICG), through which GNSS providers co-ordinate to advance GNSS technology, compatibility and interoperability, and the use of GNSS to promote the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (`Space4SDGs’).</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="UNOOSA.IO.CUPUOS.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Support to the UN Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (COPUOS)</heading>
               <p>
        UNOOSA extends substantive and secretariat support to COPUOS, which was established by the UN General Assembly in 1959 to support international co-operation on space exploration for the benefit of all humanity. COPUOS has two subsidiary bodies: a Scientific and Technical Subcommittee and a Legal Subcommittee. It convenes an annual multi-stakeholder dialogue on outer space. In June 2018 UNOOSA organized, in Vienna, UNISPACE+50, commemorating the 50th anniversary of the first UN Conference on the Exploration and Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (which had been held in Vienna in 1968). UNISPACE+50 included a special High-level Segment of the 61st session of COPUOS. At the 64th COPUOS session, held in September 2021, the 
        <i>Space2030 Agenda: Space as a Driver of Sustainable Development</i>
         high-level policy document, and an accompanying action plan, were issued. The 66th COPUOS session was convened in May-June 2023. The General Assembly adopts an annual resolution on international co-operation in the peaceful uses of outer space.
      </p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="UNOOSA.IO.SPACELAW.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Space Law</heading>
               <p>Through the CPLA UNOOSA supports UN member states with drafting and adopting legal instruments and regulatory frameworks to govern their activities relating to the peaceful exploration and use of space, in conformity with international space law. A Space Law for New Space Actors project was initiated in November 2019 to provide bespoke capacity-building support to member states on formulating national space legislation.</p>
               <p>The UN Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space, including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies (`Outer Space Treaty’), which was adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1966 and entered into force in 1967, represents, together with subsequently adopted treaties, principles and guidelines, the foundation of international space law. In accordance with the Outer Space Treaty the exploration and use of outer space must be conducted for the benefit and in the interests of all states; outer space is not subject to appropriation by claims of national sovereignty; the Moon and other celestial bodies must be used exclusively for peaceful purposes, and weapons of mass destruction must not be placed by member states on celestial bodies or in space orbit; and states must avoid the harmful contamination of space and of celestial bodies, and are liable for damage caused by space objects. Having also been adopted by the UN General Assembly, an Agreement on the Rescue of Astronauts, the Return of Astronauts, and the Return of Objects Launched into Outer Space entered into effect in 1968; a Convention on International Liability for Damage Caused by Space Objects in 1972; the Convention on Registration of Objects Launched into Outer Space in 1976; and an Agreement Governing the Activities of States on the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies in 1984.</p>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>UN Register of Objects Launched into Outer Space</heading>
                    <p>UNOOSA manages the responsibilities assigned under international space law to the UN Secretary-General, including maintaining the global UN Register of Objects Launched into Outer Space, which was created in 1961. Through the Register, specific materials launched into space (i.e. satellites, landers, probes, crewed spacecraft and space station flight elements) are linked to the state or organization that has been identified as bearing responsibility and liability for them. By October 2023 around 87% of all relevant objects were reported to be listed on the Register. The 1976 Convention on Registration of Objects Launched into Outer Space requires states and organizations to establish their own national registries listing space objects, and to disclose relevant information to the global UN Register.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="UNOOSA.IO.SPACEAPPLICATIONS.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Space Applications</heading>
               <p>The Programme on Space Applications (PSA), implemented by UNOOSA’s Space Applications Section, assists (particularly developing) countries to build national capacity through a Basic Space Science Initiative; a Basic Space Technology Initiative; a Human Space Technology Initiative; and in areas such as satellite communications, global health, climate change, biodiversity and ecosystems, disaster management, environmental monitoring, and natural resources management. Access to Space for All, a capacity-building initiative within the PSA framework, aims to make space capabilities and benefits universally accessible. In June 2022 the 65th COPUOS session placed a particular focus on the contribution made by space science and technologies to supporting global health.</p>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Disaster Management</heading>
                    <p>Through the UN Platform for Space-based Information for Disaster Management and Emergency Response (UN-SPIDER), established in 2006, UNOOSA provides technical advice to member states in using space data and technologies (such as satellite imagery) for disaster risk reduction and prevention, surveillance, early warning and management, and for post-disaster recovery and reconstruction activities. UN-SPIDER deploys technical advisory missions, expert missions, and institutional strengthening missions to member states; provides remote technical advisory support and online training, for example through webinars; and facilitates rapid access to space-based information during emergencies. A UN-SPIDER online knowledge portal is maintained. By 2023 SPIDER had 27 regional support offices.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Planetary Defence</heading>
                    <p>
          UNOOSA acts as the secretariat of the Space Mission Planning Advisory Group, which was established in 2014, alongside an International Asteroid Warning Network, to strengthen—including through collaborative research and the exchange of information—global preparedness and defences against the risk posed by asteroids and other near-Earth objects (NEOs), which potentially could collide with the Earth. In April 2023 UNOOSA and the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="ESA.IO">European Space Agency</xr>
           jointly convened the eighth International Academy of Astronautics Planetary Defense Conference, with an agenda that included, 
          <i>inter alia,</i>
           the modelling and testing of technology aimed at deflecting and disrupting asteroids, and related political, legal, social and economic considerations. UNOOSA, to support the sustainability of outer space activities, works to foster solutions to issues such as the rapid accumulation of Earth-generated debris in space.
        </p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="UNOOSA.IO.SPACEEDUCATION.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Space Education and Outreach</heading>
               <p>UNOOSA’s Senior Adviser on Space Science and Education provides expert advice on space science, supports space research, and co-operates closely with six UN-affiliated Regional Centres for Space Science and Technology Education, that are based in: Beijing, China and New Delhi, India (both for Asia and the Pacific); Amman, Jordan (Western Asia); Rabat, Morocco (Francophone Africa); Ile-Ife, Nigeria (English-speaking Africa); and San Andrés Cholula, Mexico/Santa Maria, Brazil (Central and South America). Access to Space for All facilitates access to space research facilities, infrastructure and technical information. The Office organizes training, webinars, workshops and conferences. Advice on space economy issues is extended to member states. To promote gender equality the Office implements a Space4Women project and maintains a Space4Women website. Space4Youth dialogues and competitions are organized. Portals on Space4Health, Space4Water, and on space sustainability are also maintained, to support training and capacity-building activities. In December 2022 UNOOSA helped to organize a World Space Forum, themed `Sustainability in Space for Sustainability on Earth'. In June 2023, in support of the implementation of the SDGs, UNOOSA and ESA initiated the Space Solutions Compendium, a database of relevant past and ongoing space initiatives.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="UNOOSA.IO.FINANCE.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Finance</heading>
          <p>In addition to extrabudgetary resources UNOOSA receives an allocation from the regular budget of the UN (US&#8201;$4.8m. in 2024).</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="UNOOSA.IO.PUBLS.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Publications</heading>
          <publ-list>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Annual Report</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Space Economy Outcome Report</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">, annual</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
          </publ-list>
     </int-org-section>
</int-org-entry>