<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT" id-root="wb02047.io.txt" iso="wb02047.io.txt" original-filename="wb02047.txt" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee sacac ass mena sasia fea eerca"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>European Union</org-entry-name>
               <abbr>EU</abbr>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">International Organizations</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">Major non-UN Organizations</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee sacac sasia ass mena fea eerca">Regional Organizations</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb edio casee sacac sasia ass mena fea eerca">European Union</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.5000" usage="ewyb edio casee">The European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) was created by a treaty signed in Paris, France, on 18 April 1951 (effective from 25 July 1952) to pool the coal and steel production of the six original members. It was regarded as a first step towards a united Europe. The European Economic Community (EEC) was established by the Treaty of Rome, signed in Rome, Italy, on 25 March 1957 (effective from 1 January 1958), to create a common market. The European Atomic Energy Community (Eur­atom) was established alongside by a separate treaty to promote growth in nuclear industries. The common institutions of the three Communities were established by a treaty signed in Brussels, Belgium, on 8 April 1965 (effective from 1 July 1967).</p>
          <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.5001" usage="ewyb edio casee">The EEC was formally changed to the European Community (EC) under the Maastricht Treaty, or Treaty on European Union (effective from 1 November 1993), although in practice the term EC had been used for several years to describe the three Communities together. The treaty established a Euro­pean Union (EU), which introduced citizenship thereof and aimed to increase intergovernmental co-operation in economic and monetary affairs; to establish a common foreign and security policy; and to introduce co-operation in justice and home affairs. The EU was placed under the supervision of the European Council (comprising heads of state or of government of member countries), while the EC continued to exist, having competence in matters relating to the Treaty of Rome and its amendments.</p>
          <p id="WB02047.TXT.5002" usage="ewyb edio casee">The Treaty of Paris establishing the ECSC expired on 23 July 2002, resulting in the termination of the ECSC legal regime and procedures and the dissolution of the ECSC Consultative Committee. The ECSC’s assets and liabilities were transferred to the overall EU budget, while rights and obligations arising from international agreements drawn up between the ECSC and third countries were devolved to the EC.</p>
          <p>In December 2001 the European Council adopted the Declaration on the Future of the European Union, which aimed to reform EU institutions to ensure the smooth functioning of the Union after enlargement. The full text of the draft constitutional treaty was submitted to the Council of the European Union (often known as the Council) in July 2003. At a summit meeting held in Brussels in June 2004, the heads of state and of government of the then 25 EU member states approved the draft constitutional treaty, which was formally signed in Rome in October by the heads of state or of government of the 25 member states and the three candidate countries of Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey (officially redesignated as Türkiye in June 2022). However, the treaty remained subject to ratification by each member nation (either by a vote in the national legislature or by a popular referendum), and in May and June 2005 it was rejected in national referendums held in France and the Netherlands, respectively.</p>
          <p>At an informal summit of the European Council held in Lisbon, Portugal, in mid-October 2007, agreement was reached at an Intergovernmental Conference on the final text of a new reform treaty. The resulting Treaty of Lisbon amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community was signed in Lisbon, on 13 December, by the heads of state or of government of the now 27 member states. The Treaty of Lisbon retained much of the content of the abandoned constitutional treaty. In June 2008 voters in Ireland, which was constitutionally bound to conduct a popular referendum on the issue, rejected ratification of the treaty. Consequently, in December the European Council agreed to a number of concessions, including the removal of a provision in the treaty for a reduction in the number of European Commissioners. A new referendum, held in Ireland in October 2009, approved the treaty. By early November all EU member states had ratified the Treaty of Lisbon, which entered into force on 1 December. The Treaty of Rome was duly renamed the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, with references to the European `Community’ changed to the `Union’. Euratom continued to exist, alongside the EU.</p>
          <p>Meetings of the principal organs take place in Brussels, in Luxembourg and in Strasbourg, France. The Treaty of Lisbon created a High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy (appointed by the European Council by qualified majority with the agreement of the President of the Commission) to represent the EU internationally, combining the former roles of EU Commissioner responsible for external relations and EU High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy (although foreign policy remains subject to a national veto). The Lisbon Treaty also provided for the creation of a new permanent President of the European Council, elected by the European Council; the creation of this role aimed to promote coherence and continuity in policymaking. The system of a six-month rotating Presidency was retained for the different formations of the Council of the European Union (except for the External Relations Council, chaired by the High Representative). A new system of fixed 18-month troikas (groups of three presidencies) was introduced, sharing the presidencies of most configurations of the Council, to facilitate overall co-ordination and continuity of work. The Lisbon Treaty provided for a revised system of qualified majority voting in the Council. The European Parliament’s (EP) legislative powers were consolidated under the Lisbon Treaty, which granted the Parliament the right of co-decision with the Council in an increased number of policy areas, giving it a more prominent role in framing legislation. The maximum number of seats in the EP was raised to 751 from 2014.</p>
          <p>The Lisbon Treaty sought to improve democracy and transparency within the Union, introducing the right for EU citizens to petition the Commission to introduce new legislation and enshrining the principles of subsidiarity (that the EU should only act when an objective can be better achieved at supranational level, implying that national powers are the norm) and proportionality (that the action should be proportional to the desired objective). National parliaments are given the opportunity to examine EU legislation to ensure that it rests within the EU’s remit, and legislation may be returned to the Commission for reconsideration if one-third of member states find that a proposed law breaches these principles. The Treaty of Lisbon enabled enhanced co-operation for groups numbering at least one-third of the member states. The treaty provided a legal basis for an EU defence force, with a mutual defence clause, and stipulated that the EU has the power to sign treaties and sit on international bodies as a legal entity in its own right. It also provided for the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor’s Office to combat EU fraud and cross-border crime and the right to dual citizenship (i.e. of the EU as well as of a member state). Article 50 of the Treaty of Lisbon provides for a member state to withdraw from the Union if it so wishes, `in accordance with its own constitutional requirements’. Such a member state must notify the European Council of its intention, thereby formally invoking Article 50. If a withdrawing member state later wishes to apply to rejoin the EU, its application will be considered as that of a third country (under Article 49 of the Treaty of Lisbon).</p>
          <dir-list>
               <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee sacac ass mena sasia fea eerca">
                    <dir-entry-name>Presidency of the Council of the European Union</dir-entry-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">Belgium (January-June 2024); Hungary (July-December 2024); Poland (January-June 2025)</content-note>
                    <!--https://www.consilium.europa.eu/media/56627/presidencies-until-2030.pdf-->
               </dir-entry>
               <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee sacac ass mena sasia fea eerca">
                    <dir-entry-name>President of the European Council</dir-entry-name>
                    <person-group>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Charles</forename>
                                   <surname>Michel</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Belgium</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </person-group>
               </dir-entry>
               <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee sacac ass mena sasia fea eerca">
                    <dir-entry-name>High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy</dir-entry-name>
                    <person-group>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Josep</forename>
                                   <surname>Borrell Fontelles</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Spain</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </person-group>
               </dir-entry>
               <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <dir-entry-name>Secretary-General of the Council of the European Union</dir-entry-name>
                    <person-group>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Thérèse</forename>
                                   <surname>Blanchet</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>France</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </person-group>
               </dir-entry>
               <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <dir-entry-name>President of the European Commission</dir-entry-name>
                    <person-group>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Ursula</forename>
                                   <surname>von der Leyen</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Germany</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </person-group>
               </dir-entry>
               <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <dir-entry-name>President of the European Parliament</dir-entry-name>
                    <person-group>
                         <person>
                              <person-name>
                                   <forename>Roberta</forename>
                                   <surname>Metsola</surname>
                              </person-name>
                              <person-note>Malta</person-note>
                         </person>
                    </person-group>
               </dir-entry>
          </dir-list>
          <int-org-section id="WB02046.IO.TXT.2" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
               <heading>Members</heading>
               <table-block-simple id="WB02046.IO.TXT.3" type="OTHER">
                    <table style="WITHOUT-RULES">
                         <tgroup cols="3">
                              <colspec colwidth="6.7cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="6.7cm" />
                              <colspec colwidth="6.6cm" />
                              <tbody>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Austria</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                  France
                  <endnoteref idref="WB02046.IO.TXT.4" ref-symbol="*" />
                                        </entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Malta</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                  Belgium
                  <endnoteref idref="WB02046.IO.TXT.4" ref-symbol="*" />
                                        </entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                  Germany
                  <endnoteref idref="WB02046.IO.TXT.4" ref-symbol="*" />
                                        </entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                  Netherlands
                  <endnoteref idref="WB02046.IO.TXT.4" ref-symbol="*" />
                                        </entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Bulgaria</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Greece</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Poland</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Croatia</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Hungary</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Portugal</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Cyprus</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Ireland</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Romania</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Czech Republic</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                  Italy
                  <endnoteref idref="WB02046.IO.TXT.4" ref-symbol="*" />
                                        </entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Slovakia</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Denmark</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Latvia</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Slovenia</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Estonia</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Lithuania</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Spain</entry>
                                   </row>
                                   <row>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Finland</entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">
                  Luxembourg
                  <endnoteref idref="WB02046.IO.TXT.4" ref-symbol="*" />
                                        </entry>
                                        <entry style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Sweden</entry>
                                   </row>
                              </tbody>
                         </tgroup>
                    </table>
               </table-block-simple>
               <endnote id="WB02046.IO.TXT.4" ref-symbol="*">Original members.</endnote>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="WB02048.IO.TXT.10813380651" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="int-org_eu" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee mena">
               <heading>Enlargement</heading>
               <p usage="ewyb edio casee">The six original members (Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg and the Netherlands) were joined in the European Communities (later the EU) on 1 January 1973 by Denmark, Ireland and the United Kingdom, and on 1 January 1981 by Greece. In a referendum held in February 1982, the inhabitants of Greenland voted to end their membership of the Community, entered into when under full Danish rule. Greenland’s withdrawal took effect from 1 February 1985. Portugal and Spain became members on 1 January 1986. Following the reunification of Germany in October 1990, the former German Democratic Republic immediately became part of the Community (subject to a transitional period before certain Community legislation took effect there). Austria, Finland and Sweden became members on 1 January 1995.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio casee">At the Copenhagen (Denmark) summit on 13 December 2002 the European Council agreed that 10 candidate countries, comprising eight in Central and Eastern Europe (the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia), and Malta and Cyprus, should join the EU on 1 May 2004. The leaders of the 10 new member states signed an accession treaty in Athens, Greece, on 16 April 2003. The Treaty of Athens had to be ratified by all 25 states prior to accession. The 15 existing member states opted to ratify the treaty in parliament whereas the future member states, except Cyprus (the Cypriot Parliament unanimously approved accession to the EU on 14 July 2003), adopted the treaty by referendum. Only the Greek Cypriot sector of Cyprus was admitted to the EU on 1 May, in the absence of a settlement on the divided status of the island.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio casee">Romania submitted its application for EU membership in June 1995, and Bulgaria in December. Accession negotiations started with both countries in February 2000. In October 2004 the Commission proposed a new clause in accession treaties under which membership negotiations could be suspended if candidate countries failed to fulfil the economic and political criteria established in Copenhagen in December 2002, according to which a prospective member must be a stable democracy, respecting human rights, the rule of law and the protection of minorities; have a functioning market economy; and adopt the common rules, standards and policies that make up the body of EU law. Bulgaria and Romania provisionally completed formal negotiations in June and December 2004, respectively, and this was confirmed at the Brussels European Council meeting of 17 December. The Commission approved the accession applications of Romania and Bulgaria on 22 February 2005, and the two countries signed a joint accession treaty on 25 April. They formally became members of the Union on 1 January 2007.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio casee">Croatia submitted its application for membership of the EU in February 2003; membership negotiations commenced in October 2005 and were completed in June 2011, and Croatia signed an accession treaty on 9 December. Croatia acceded to full membership of the EU on 1 July 2013, following approval of membership by a referendum held in that country in January 2012.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio casee mena">Turkey (officially redesignated as Türkiye in June 2022), which had signed an association agreement with the EC in 1963 (which was suspended between 1980 and 1986, following a military coup), applied for membership of the EU in April 1987. In 1999 the European Council granted Turkey candidate status. In April 2004 a United Nations (UN) plan for the reunification of Cyprus was rejected in a referendum by the Greek Cypriots in the south of the island. Cyprus has been divided since 1974 when Turkey invaded the northern third of the country in response to a Greek-sponsored coup aiming to unite the island with Greece. Türkiye refuses to recognize the Greek Cypriot Government and is the only country to recognize the Government of the northern section of the country, known as the `Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus’. The requirement for the successful resolution of all territorial disputes with members of the EU meant that failure to reach a settlement in Cyprus remained an impediment to Turkey’s accession. The EU agreed to begin accession talks with Turkey in October 2005, although it warned that membership was not guaranteed. Turkey had to sign a protocol to update its association agreement with the EU prior to accession negotiations, to cover the 10 new members that had joined the organization in May 2004, including Cyprus. Turkey, which signed the protocol in July 2005, insisted that the extension of the association agreement did not constitute formal recognition of the Greek Cypriot Government. In November 2006 the Commission demanded that Turkey open its ports to Cypriot ships, in compliance with its agreement to extend its customs union to the 10 new member states in 2005. Turkey announced that there could be no progress on this issue until the EU implemented a regulation drafted in 2004 to end the economic isolation of the `Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus’, which had been blocked by Cyprus. In December 2006, therefore, the Council stipulated that talks would not commence in eight policy areas affected by the restrictions placed on Cypriot traffic by Turkey. After a period of impasse, negotiations opened in additional policy areas in December 2015 and June 2016, amid increased co-operation between the EU and Turkey on migration. However, in November 2016 the European Parliament approved a non-binding resolution supporting the temporary suspension of accession negotiations with Turkey, owing to concerns over human rights and the rule of law following the suppression of an attempted coup in July. In March 2019 Parliament supported a non-binding resolution formally suspending negotiations with Turkey, owing to continued concerns about human rights and the introduction there of a new Constitution strengthening the powers of President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan. Negotiations have been at a standstill since 2018; in its annual review of the enlargement process adopted in December 2023, the Council expressed its concerns about `backsliding in the areas of democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights’ in Türkiye, as well as the country’s stance on the Israel-Islamic Resistance Movement (Hamas) conflict in the Gaza Strip.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio casee">The former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia (FYRM—now North Macedonia) was granted candidate status in December 2005. In June 2008 the Council determined that, as a precondition of the FYRM’s accession, an ongoing dispute with Greece concerning its name (Macedonia also being the name of a region of Greece) must be satisfactorily resolved. The Prespa Agreement with Greece entered into effect in February 2019, resolving the longstanding name dispute, and the FYRM was officially renamed as the Republic of North Macedonia. As part of the agreement, Greece formally removed its objection to North Macedonia’s accession to the EU. Meanwhile, Albania had submitted a membership application in April 2009. In June 2014 the Council agreed to grant candidate status to Albania. In May 2019 the Commission recommended that membership talks should commence with both Albania and North Macedonia. In March 2020 EU ministers finally reached political agreement on opening accession negotiations with Albania and North Macedonia, a decision that was endorsed by the European Council. Accession negotiations commenced in July 2022.</p>
               <p usage="ewyb edio casee">Montenegro applied for EU membership in December 2008, and the European Council confirmed Montenegro’s status as a candidate country in December 2010. In October 2011 the European Commission declared that Montenegro had fulfilled the political and economic criteria needed to begin EU membership negotiations, and these commenced in June 2012. Serbia applied for EU membership in December 2009 and was granted candidate country status by the European Council on 1 March 2012. Although accession negoti­ations commenced in January 2014, talks on the first two policy areas began only in December 2015. In December 2023, in its annual review of progress towards EU membership, the Council stated that Serbia must normalize relations with Kosovo; make further progress in the areas of the rule of law and fundamental rights, including the independence of the judiciary and freedom and independence of the media; and commit to aligning with the EU’s stance on the conflict in Ukraine, following the Russian Federation’s invasion of that country.</p>
               <p>Bosnia and Herzegovina submitted a formal application for membership of the EU in February 2016; it was granted candidate status in December 2022. Ukraine applied for EU membership at the end of February, and Georgia and Moldova submitted membership applications in early March. In June the European Council awarded candidate status to both Moldova and Ukraine, and in December 2023 agreed to open accession negotiations with both countries. Georgia was granted candidate status in December 2023; in its annual progress review, the Council stressed that priorities for Georgia were a commitment to the `proper functioning of democratic institutions’ and reforms in the areas of justice and the rule of law. In March 2024 the Commission recommended the opening of accession negotiations with Bosnia and Herzegovina, a recommendation that was endorsed by the European Council in the same month. </p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="WB02046.IO.TXT.14843124011" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
               <heading>The United Kingdom’s Decision to Leave the European Union</heading>
               <p>On 23 June 2016 51.9% of the participating electorate in the UK voted in favour of withdrawal from the EU (commonly referred to as Brexit). The British Government formally invoked Article 50 of the Treaty of Lisbon on 29 March 2017.</p>
               <p>Negotiations between the EU and the UK officially commenced on 19 June 2017, with the aim of concluding an agreement establishing arrangements for the country’s departure from the Union, while seeking to develop a framework for the UK’s future relations with the EU. The UK was originally expected to leave the EU in March 2019, two years after invoking Article 50. In January 2018 the Council adopted supplementary negotiating directives relating to a proposed period of transition (or so-called implementation period) until 31 December 2020. During this period, the UK would not be represented at the EU, but it would remain subject to EU law.</p>
               <p>On 14 November 2018 a draft withdrawal agreement was published. On 25 November the withdrawal agreement and the associated political declaration on the future relationship between the UK and the EU were approved at a special meeting of the European Council. The aim of the withdrawal agreement was to establish terms for the UK’s orderly exit from the EU, including provisions for the implementation period. The political declaration provided guidelines for the negotiation of the future relationship between the two parties by the end of 2020, with provision for an economic partnership, a security partnership and agreement on other areas deemed to be of shared interest. However, on 10 December 2018 a parliamentary vote on the withdrawal agreement in the UK was delayed, owing to widespread opposition to it by both Eurosceptic parliamentarians and those who had supported remaining in the EU (particular controversy surrounded efforts to avoid a hard border between Northern Ireland and Ireland). Amid an ongoing impasse in the UK Parliament, and the resignation of Prime Minister Theresa May, the European Council agreed to allow the UK to extend Article 50 and delay Brexit, first until 22 May, later until 31 October, and finally until 31 January 2020.</p>
               <p>
        Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s Conservative Party secured a large majority at a general election held in December 2019, effectively removing obstacles to the parliamentary approval of a revised withdrawal agreement (which had been agreed on 17 October). Its signature by both sides took place on 24 January 2020 and the UK officially left the EU at the end of January. The withdrawal agreement consequently entered into force and an 11-month transition period commenced, during which the UK was required to adhere to EU legislation and to contribute to the EU’s budget. During the period of transition new EU-UK negotiations took place, in order to determine various issues of joint interest, notably trade arrangements. On 24 December both sides finally concluded a wide-ranging trade and co-operation agreement, which was provisionally applied from 1 January 2021, and which officially entered into force on 1 May. See 
        <i>Other European Countries</i>
         for further developments in EU-UK relations.
      </p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-entry id="INT-ORG_EU.UNIONINST" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
          <int-org-entry-head>
               <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                    <org-entry-name>Institutions of the European Union</org-entry-name>
               </int-org-name-group>
          </int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-block>
               <p>The EU provides an information service, Europe Direct, online at: european-union/contact_en.</p>
          </int-org-block>
          <int-org-entryref id="SL1115869" int-org-entrydtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1115868" slsdocid="1101609" slsdocty="int-org-entry int-org-entrydtd">
               
               <int-org-entry id="SL1101617" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <int-org-entry-head>
                         <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                              <org-entry-name>European Commission</org-entry-name>
                         </int-org-name-group>
                    </int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-block>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>200 rue de la Loi, 1049 Brussels, Belgium</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 299-11-11</telephone>
                              <fax>(2) 295-01-38</fax>
                              <email>forename.surname@ec.europa.eu</email>
                              <internet>ec.europa.eu</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <int-org-section id="WB02047.IO.TXT.33490" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                              <heading>Members of the Commission</heading>
                              <heading-note>2019-24</heading-note>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <!--https://ec.europa.eu/commission/commissioners/2019-2024_en-->
                                   <!--JUNE 2023 CHECKED AGAINST UPDATED EUED FILE CJH-->
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.337459" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>President</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Ursula</forename>
                                                       <surname>von der Leyen</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Germany</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Executive Vice-President, responsible for a Europe Fit for the Digital Age</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Margrethe</forename>
                                                       <surname>Vestager</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Denmark</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.44012" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Executive Vice-President, responsible for an Economy that Works for People and Commissioner, responsible for Trade</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Valdis</forename>
                                                       <surname>Dombrovskis</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Latvia</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.11956" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and Vice-President, responsible for a Stronger Europe in the World</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Josep</forename>
                                                       <surname>Borrell Fontelles</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Spain</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.44501" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Vice-President, responsible for the European Green Deal and Inter-institutional Relations and Foresight</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Maroš</forename>
                                                       <surname>Šefčovič</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Slovakia</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.55786" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Vice-President, responsible for Values and Transparency</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Věra</forename>
                                                       <surname>Jourová</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Czech Republic</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.55009" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Vice-President, responsible for Democracy and Demography</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Dubravka</forename>
                                                       <surname>Šuica</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Croatia</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.22845" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Vice-President, responsible for Promoting our European Way of Life</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Margaritis</forename>
                                                       <surname>Schinas</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Greece</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.334987" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Commissioner, responsible for Budget and Administration</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Johannes</forename>
                                                       <surname>Hahn</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Austria</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.11298" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Commissioner, responsible for Financial Services, Financial Stability and Capital Markets Union</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Mairead</forename>
                                                       <surname>McGuinness</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Ireland</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Commissioner, responsible for Jobs and Social Rights</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Nicholas</forename>
                                                       <surname>Schmit</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Luxembourg</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Commissioner, responsible for the Economy</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Paolo</forename>
                                                       <surname>Gentiloni</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Italy</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Commissioner, responsible for Agriculture</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Janusz</forename>
                                                       <surname>Wojciechowski</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Poland</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Commissioner, responsible for the Internal Market</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Thierry</forename>
                                                       <surname>Breton</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>France</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Commissioner, responsible for Cohesion and Reforms</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Elisa</forename>
                                                       <surname>Ferreira</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Portugal</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Commissioner, responsible for Health and Food Safety</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Stella</forename>
                                                       <surname>Kyriakides</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Cyprus</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.66045" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Commissioner, responsible for Justice</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Didier</forename>
                                                       <surname>Reynders</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Belgium</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.44523" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Commissioner, responsible for Equality</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Helena</forename>
                                                       <surname>Dalli</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Malta</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.55647" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Commissioner, responsible for Home Affairs</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Ylva</forename>
                                                       <surname>Johansson</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Sweden</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.77845" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Commissioner, responsible for Crisis Management</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Janez</forename>
                                                       <surname>Lenarčič</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Slovenia</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.44509" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Commissioner, responsible for Transport</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Adina</forename>
                                                       <surname>Vălean</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Romania</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.445099778" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Commissioner, responsible for Neighbourhood and Enlargement</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Olivér</forename>
                                                       <surname>Várhelyi</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Hungary</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.55623" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Commissioner, responsible for International Partnerships</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Jutta</forename>
                                                       <surname>Urpilainen</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Finland</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.33547" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Commissioner, responsible for Energy</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Kadri</forename>
                                                       <surname>Simson</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Estonia</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.774980" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Commissioner, responsible for the Environment, Oceans and Fisheries</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Virginijus</forename>
                                                       <surname>Sinkevičius</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Lithuania</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.190720171517" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <!--NB vacant as Mariya Gabriel - Bulgaria - resigned May 2023-->
                                        <dir-entry-name>Commissioner, responsible for Innovation, Research, Culture, Education and Youth</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Iliana</forename>
                                                       <surname>Ivanova</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Bulgaria</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.44967" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Commissioner, responsible for Climate Action</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Wopke</forename>
                                                       <surname>Hoekstra</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Netherlands</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.26" usage="ewyb edio casee">The European Commission, like the European Parliament (EP) and the Council of the European Union, was established in the 1950s under the EU’s founding treaties. The functions of the Commission are fourfold: to propose legislation to the EP and the Council; to implement EU policies and programmes adopted by the EP and to manage and implement the budget; to enforce European law, in conjunction with the Court of Justice, in all the member states; and to represent the EU in international affairs and to negotiate agreements between the EU and other organizations or countries.</p>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.28" usage="ewyb edio casee">A new Commission is appointed for a five-year term, normally within six months of the elections to the EP. The European Council nominates an individual for the post of Commission President. The nominee must then be elected by the EP by majority vote; if the Parliament fails to elect the nominated candidate, a new candidate must be nominated within a period of one month. The Governments of member states then nominate the other members of the Commission, who must be approved by the EP. In the performance of their duties, the members of the Commission are forbidden to seek or accept instructions from any government or other body, or to engage in any other paid or unpaid professional activity. Once approved, the Commission may nominate a number of its members as Vice-President. Any member of the Commission, if they no longer fulfil the conditions required for the performance of their duties, or commit a serious offence, may be removed from office by the Court of Justice. The Court may, furthermore, on the petition of the Council or of the Commission itself, provisionally suspend any member of the Commission from their duties. The EP has the authority to dismiss the entire Commission by adopting a motion of censure.</p>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.65464764764" usage="ewyb edio casee">The members of the Commission, also known as the College, meet once a week and a collective decision is made on policy following a presentation by the relevant Commissioner. The Commission’s staff is organized into Directorates-General and Services. Each Directorate-General is responsible for a particular policy area and they devise and draft the Commission’s legislative proposals, which become official when adopted by the Commission.</p>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.29" usage="ewyb edio">
              Following allegations of fraud, mismanagement and nepotism within the Commission, in March 1999 two new codes of conduct for Commissioners were announced, and a Committee of Independent Experts published a report that criticized the Commission’s failure to control, 
              <i>inter alia</i>
              , the administration of the budget. The Commission duly agreed to resign. In November 2005 the Commission launched the Euro­pean Transparency Initiative, with the aim of strengthening ethical rules for EU policymakers, increasing the transparency of lobbying and ensuring the openness of the institutions.
            </p>
                              <p usage="ewyb edio casee">On 1 May 2004 the 20 existing members of the Commission were joined by 10 new members (one from each new member state). For the first six months of their term of office, although considered full members, they worked alongside existing Commissioners and were not allocated their own departments. From November, when a new Commission began its mandate, there were 25 members of the Commission, one from each member state as stipulated by the Treaty of Nice (prior to 1 May, large countries had been permitted two Commissioners, while smaller countries had one). In January 2007, following the accession of Bulgaria and Romania, the number of Commissioners increased to 27, the number increasing to 28 following Croatia’s accession to the EU in July 2013.</p>
                              <p>A Commission led by Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg took office on 1 November 2014. A new Commission for 2019-24, led by Ursula von der Leyen of Germany, took office on 1 December 2019, comprising 27 Commissioners (anticipating the UK’s withdrawal from the EU, which took place on 31 January 2020).</p>
                         </int-org-section>
                         <int-org-section id="WB02047.IO.TXT.419" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                              <heading>DIRECTORATES-GENERAL</heading>
                              <org-list>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.36" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG AGRI</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>130 rue de la Loi, 1049 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/dgs/agriculture</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Wolfgang</forename>
                                                       <surname>Burtscher</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.60" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Budget</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG BUDG</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>15 rue Montoyer, 1000 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/info/departments/budget</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Stéphanie</forename>
                                                       <surname>Riso</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="IO-EU.999" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Climate Action</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG CLIMA</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>19 ave d’Auderghem, 1040 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/info/departments/climate-action</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Kurt</forename>
                                                       <surname>Vandenberghe</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.33" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Communication</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG COMM</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>200 rue de la Loi, 1049 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/info/departments/communication</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Dana</forename>
                                                       <surname>Spinant</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>acting</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.46" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Communications Networks, Content and Technology</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG CNECT</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>51 rue de la Loi, 1000 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/digital-single-market/dg-connect</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Roberto</forename>
                                                       <surname>Viola</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.37" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <data-protection date-added="24.04.2007" ticked-box="Y" />
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Competition</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG COMP</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>1 place Madou, 1210 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/competition</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Olivier</forename>
                                                       <surname>Guersent</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.04022020" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Defence Industry and Space</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG DEFIS</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>45 ave d’Auderghem, 1040 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/info/departments/defence-industry-and-space_en</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Timo</forename>
                                                       <surname>Pesonen</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.38" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Economic and Financial Affairs</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG ECFIN</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>170 rue de la Loi, 1049 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/info/departments/economic-and-financial-affairs</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Maarten</forename>
                                                       <surname>Verwey</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.39" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Education, Youth, Sport and Culture</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG EAC</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>70 rue Joseph II, 1049 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/info/departments/education-youth-sport-and-culture</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Pia</forename>
                                                       <surname>Ahrenkilde Hansen</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.40" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <data-protection date-added="27.04.2011" ticked-box="Y" />
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Employment, Social Affairs and Inclusion</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG EMPL</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>27 rue de Joseph II, 1000 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/info/departments/employment-social-affairs-and-inclusion</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Andriana</forename>
                                                       <surname>Sukova</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>acting</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.41" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Energy</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG ENER</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>24 rue de Mot, 1049 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/info/departments/energy</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Ditte Juul</forename>
                                                       <surname>Jørgensen</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.43" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Environment</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG ENV</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>19 ave d’Auderghem, 1040 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/environment</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Florika</forename>
                                                       <surname>Fink-Hooijer</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.58" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG ECHO</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>86 rue de la Loi, 1049 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <fax>(2) 295-45-44</fax>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/echo</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Maciej</forename>
                                                       <surname>Popowski</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.55" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for European Neighbourhood and Enlargement Negotiations</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG NEAR</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>15 rue de la Loi, 1049 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/info/departments/european-neighbourhood-policy-and-enlargement-negotiations</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Gert Jan</forename>
                                                       <surname>Koopman</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.42" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Financial Stability, Financial Services and Capital Markets Union</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG FISMA</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>2 rue de Spa, 1000 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/info/departments/financial-stability-financial-services-and-capital-markets-union</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>John</forename>
                                                       <surname>Berrigan</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.45" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Health and Food Safety</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG SANTE</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>4 rue Breydel, 1040 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/info/departments/health-and-food-safety</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Sandra</forename>
                                                       <surname>Gallina</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.64" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Human Resources and Security</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG HR</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>200 rue de la Loi, 1000 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/dgs/human-resources</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Christian</forename>
                                                       <surname>Roques</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>acting</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.9876545678" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <data-protection date-added="07.02.2008" ticked-box="Y" />
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Informatics</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG DIGIT</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>28 rue Belliard, 1000 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/info/departments/informatics</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Veronica</forename>
                                                       <surname>Gaffey</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.47" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Internal Market, Industry, Entrepreneurship and SMEs</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG GROW</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>45 ave d’Auderghem, 1049 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/info/departments/internal-market-industry-entrepreneurship-and-smes</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Kerstin</forename>
                                                       <surname>Jorna</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.54" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for International Partnerships</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG INTPA</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>41 rue de la Loi, 1040 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/international-partnerships/home</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Koen</forename>
                                                       <surname>Doens</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.62" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <data-protection date-added="07.02.2008" ticked-box="Y" />
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Interpretation</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG SCIC</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>36 rue Froissart, 1040 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/dgs/scic</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Genoveva</forename>
                                                       <surname>Ruíz Calavera</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.49" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Justice and Consumers</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG JUST</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>40 rue du Luxembourg, 1000 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/info/departments/justice-and-consumers</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Ana</forename>
                                                       <surname>Gallego Torres</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.44" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs and Fisheries</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG MARE</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>99 rue de Joseph II, 1000 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/info/departments/maritime-affairs-and-fisheries</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Charlina</forename>
                                                       <surname>Vitcheva</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.4900" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Migration and Home Affairs</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG HOME</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>46 rue du Luxembourg, 1049 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/dgs/home-affairs</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Beate</forename>
                                                       <surname>Gminder</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="IO-EU.333" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Mobility and Transport</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG MOVE</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>28 rue Demot, 1040 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <email>move-infos@ec.europa.eu</email>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/transport</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Magda</forename>
                                                       <surname>Kopczynska</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.50" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Regional and Urban Policy</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG REGIO</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>23 cours Saint-Michel, 1049 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/dgs/regional_policy</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Themis</forename>
                                                       <surname>Christophidou</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.51" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Research and Innovation</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG RTD</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>8 sq. Frère-Orban, 1000 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/info/departments/research-and-innovation</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Marc</forename>
                                                       <surname>Lemaître</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.52" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Structural Reform Support</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG REFORM</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>41 ave de Tervueren, 1040 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/info/departments/structural-reform-support-service</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Mario</forename>
                                                       <surname>Nava</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.5252" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Taxation and Customs Union</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG TAXUD</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>79 rue Joseph II, 1000 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/info/departments/taxation-and-customs-union</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Gerassimos</forename>
                                                       <surname>Thomas</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.59" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Trade</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DG TRADE</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>170 rue de la Loi, 1000 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/trade</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Sabine</forename>
                                                       <surname>Weyand</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.65" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <data-protection date-added="07.02.2008" ticked-box="Y" />
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Directorate-General for Translation</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>DGT</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>6-8 rue de Genève, 1140 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/info/departments/translation</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Christos</forename>
                                                       <surname>Ellinides</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.32" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <data-protection date-added="22.03.2006" ticked-box="Y" />
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Eurostat</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>ESTAT</abbr>
                                             <alt-name>Statistical Office of the European Communities</alt-name>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>5 rue Alphonse Weicker, 2721 Luxembourg</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/eurostat</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role> Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Mariana</forename>
                                                       <surname>Kotzeva</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.48" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Joint Research Centre</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>JRC</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>21 rue du Champ de Mars, 1050 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <internet>ec.europa.eu/info/departments/joint-research-centre</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Stephen</forename>
                                                       <surname>Quest</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                              </org-list>
                         </int-org-section>
                    </int-org-block>
               </int-org-entry>
          </int-org-entryref>
          <int-org-entryref id="SL1115877" int-org-entrydtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1115876" slsdocid="1103208" slsdocty="int-org-entry int-org-entrydtd">
               
               <int-org-entry id="IWB02047.IO.TXT.424" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <int-org-entry-head>
                         <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                              <org-entry-name>European Council</org-entry-name>
                         </int-org-name-group>
                    </int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-block>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Europa Bldg, 175 rue de la Loi, 1048 Brussels, Belgium</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 281-61-11</telephone>
                              <fax>(2) 281-69-34</fax>
                              <internet>www.consilium.europa.eu</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.66" usage="ewyb edio casee">The European Council was originally the name used to describe summit meetings of the heads of state or of government of the EU member states, their ministers responsible for foreign affairs, and senior officials of the European Commission. The Council met at least twice a year. There was no provision made for the existence of the European Council in the Treaty of Rome, but its position was acknowledged and regularized in the Single European Act (1987). Its role was further strengthened in the Treaty on European Union, which entered into force on 1 November 1993. As a result of the treaty, the European Council became directly responsible for common policies within the fields of common foreign and security policy and justice and home affairs.</p>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.67" usage="ewyb edio casee">
            Under the Treaty of Lisbon, which came into force at the beginning of December 2009, the European Council became an institution shaping the EU’s development and defining its political priorities. The European Council comprises the heads of state or of government of the member states, together with its President and the President of the Commission; the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy is also involved in the activities of the European Council, which performs no legislative function, and meets for summits at least twice every six months, as convened by its President. If required, the President may convene special meetings of the European Council. The European Council plays a formal role in the European Semester, the EU’s annual cycle of economic and fiscal policy
            
            making.
          </p>
                         <p>In November 2009 EU heads of state and of government elected Herman Van Rompuy of Belgium to the new position of President of the European Council, for a period of two years and six months, renewable once. He took office upon the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon. On 1 December 2014 Van Rompuy was succeeded by Donald Tusk of Poland. Tusk was replaced on 1 December 2019, upon the expiry of his second term, by Charles Michel of Belgium.</p>
                    </int-org-block>
               </int-org-entry>
          </int-org-entryref>
          <int-org-entryref id="SL1115886" int-org-entrydtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1115885" slsdocid="1101623" slsdocty="int-org-entry int-org-entrydtd">
               
               <int-org-entry id="SL1101631" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <int-org-entry-head>
                         <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                              <org-entry-name>Council of the European Union</org-entry-name>
                         </int-org-name-group>
                    </int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-block>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Justus Lipsius Bldg, 175 rue de la Loi, 1048 Brussels, Belgium</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 281-61-11</telephone>
                              <fax>(2) 281-69-34</fax>
                              <email>press.office@consilium.europa.eu</email>
                              <internet>www.consilium.europa.eu</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.68" usage="ewyb edio casee">
            The Council of the European Union, often referred to simply as the Council, was, until November 1993, known formally as the Council of Ministers of the European Communities (and is still sometimes referred to informally as the Council of Ministers). The Council is the only institution that directly represents the member states. It is the EU’s principal decision-making body, acting, as a rule, on proposals made by the Commission, and has five main responsibilities: to approve EU legislation (in many fields it legislates jointly with the European Parliament—EP); to co-ordinate the broad policy of the member states in specific areas, such as economic and fiscal policy, employment, and education, culture, youth and sport; to conclude international agreements between the EU and one or more states or international organizations; to develop the EU’s foreign and security policy, on the basis of guidelines drawn up by the European Council; and to adopt the EU budget (together with the EP). The Council is composed of representatives of the member states, each Government delegating to it one of its members, according to the subject to be discussed (the Council has 10 different configurations). These meetings are generally referred to as the Agriculture and Fisheries Council, the Transport, Telecommunications and Energy Council, etc. The General Affairs and Foreign Affairs Council, the Economic and Financial Affairs Council and the Agriculture and Fisheries Council each normally meet once a month. The Eurogroup is an informal grouping of ministers of finance of the 20 eurozone member states; it is led, since July 2020, by Irish Minister of Finance Paschal Donohoe, elected for a term of 2.5 years. Donohoe began a second term in January 2023. The Eurogroup meets once a month, typically the day before the meeting of the Economic and Financial Affairs Council. The Presidency is exercised for a term of six months by each member of the Council in rotation. A new, fixed 18-month trio system (groups of three presidencies) was introduced under the Treaty of Lisbon, which entered into force on 1 December 2009. Following Croatia’s admission to the EU in 2013 and a referendum vote in mid-2016 in favour of the UK’s departure from the EU, in July 2016 the Council agreed a new, draft trio system. The trio shares the presidencies of most configurations of the Council, with the aim of facilitating overall co-ordination and continuity of work. The current Presidency Trio comprises Belgium (January-June 2024) and Hungary (July-December 2024), Spain having presided in July-December 2023.
            <!--following trio from July - Dec 2023 Spain, then Belgium, Hungary https://www.consilium.europa.eu/media/56627/presidencies-until-2030.pdf-->
                         </p>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.69" usage="ewyb edio casee">The Treaty of Rome prescribed three types of voting (depending on the issue under discussion): simple majority; qualified majority; and unanimity. Amendments to the Treaty of Rome (the Single European Act), effective from July 1987, restricted the right of veto and allowed proposals relating to the dismantling of barriers to the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital to be approved by a majority vote in the Council, rather than by a unanimous vote. Unanimity was still required for certain areas, including harmonization of indirect taxes, legislation on health and safety, veterinary controls and environmental protection; individual states retained control over immigration rules and the prevention of terrorism and of drug trafficking. The Treaty of Amsterdam, which came into force on 1 May 1999, extended the use of qualified majority voting (QMV) to a number of areas previously subject to unanimous decision. Under the terms of the Treaty of Nice, which came into force on 1 February 2003, a further range of areas that had previously been subject to national vetoes became subject to QMV. With the expansion of the EU to 25 members in 2004 (and subsequently to 27 members in 2007 and to 28 members in 2013-20, until the departure of the UK in January 2020), and the consequent reduced likelihood of unanimity in Council decisions, the use of QMV in a broader range of decisions was intended to minimize so-called policy drag. The 2009 Lisbon Treaty provided for the further extension of QMV, which was newly defined, to areas that had previously been subject to national vetoes (from 2014, see below).</p>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.70" usage="ewyb edio casee">The Single European Act introduced a `co-operation procedure’ whereby a proposal adopted by a qualified majority in the Council had to be submitted to the EP for approval: if the Parliament were to reject the Council’s common position, unanimity was required for the Council to act on a second reading and, if the Parliament suggested amendments, the Commission was required to re-examine the proposal and forward it to the Council again. A `co-decision procedure’ was introduced in 1993 by the Treaty on European Union. The procedure allowed a proposal to be submitted for a third reading by a so-called Conciliation Committee, composed equally of Council representatives and members of the EP. The Treaty of Amsterdam simplified the co-decision procedure, and extended it to matters previously resolved under the co-operation procedure, although the latter remained in place for matters concerning economic and monetary union.</p>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.72" usage="ewyb edio casee">The Treaty of Nice addressed institutional issues that remained outstanding under the Treaty of Amsterdam and that had to be settled before the enlargement of the EU in 2004, and various other issues not directly connected with enlargement. The main focus of the treaty was the establishment of principles governing the distribution of seats in the EP, the composition of the Commission and a new definition of QMV within the Council. In accordance with the provisions incorporated in the Treaty of Nice, from 1 November 2004 the weighting system was as follows: France, Germany, Italy and the UK 29 votes each; Poland and Spain 27 votes each; the Netherlands 13 votes; Belgium, the Czech Republic, Greece, Hungary and Portugal 12 votes each; Austria and Sweden 10 votes each; Denmark, Finland, Ireland, Lithuania and Slovakia seven votes each; Cyprus, Estonia, Latvia, Luxembourg and Slovenia four votes each; and Malta three votes. A qualified majority was reached if a majority of member states (in some cases a two-thirds’ majority) approved and if at least 232 votes out of a total of 321 were cast in favour (72.3% of the total—approximately the same share as under the previous system). In addition, a member state could request confirmation that the votes in favour represented at least 62% of the total population of the EU. Should this not be the case, the decision would not be adopted by the Council. The number of weighted votes required for the adoption of a decision (referred to as the `qualified majority threshold’) was reassessed in response to a change in the number of EU member states.</p>
                         <p>Reforms approved under the 2009 Treaty of Lisbon provided for the extension and redefinition of QMV in the Council and the ending of the system of national vetoes in a number of further policy areas (including combating climate change, energy, emergency aid, and security). From November 2014 a `double majority’ came into effect, defined as representing at least 55% of the members of the Council (i.e. composed of at least 15 of the current 27 member states) and representing member states comprising at least 65% of the EU’s population (while a blocking minority must include at least four member states representing over 35% of the EU population). However, in cases where the Council is not acting on the basis of a Commission proposal, the double majority threshold is 72% of the members of the Council, representing at least 65% of the EU population. The Treaty of Lisbon included a provision permitting, subject to prior unanimous approval by national legislatures, the introduction of double majority voting in an area hitherto requiring unanimity (except in a small number of areas, including defence, foreign policy and taxation).</p>
                         <int-org-section id="WB02047.IO.TXT.440" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                              <heading>GENERAL SECRETARIAT</heading>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Secretary-General of the Council of the European Union</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Thérèse</forename>
                                                       <surname>Blanchet</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                              <org-list>
                                   <org-list-head>Directorates-General</org-list-head>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.79" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Legal Service</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>JUR</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Emer</forename>
                                                       <surname>Finnegan</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>General and Institutional Policy</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>GIP</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Didier</forename>
                                                       <surname>Seeuws</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.81" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Organizational Development and Services</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>ORG</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>William</forename>
                                                       <surname>Shapcott</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.82" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Agriculture, Fisheries, Social Affairs and Health</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>LIFE</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Cesare</forename>
                                                       <surname>Onestini</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.83" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Foreign Affairs, Enlargement and Civil Protection</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>RELEX</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Maryem</forename>
                                                       <surname>van den Heuvel</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.855475" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Justice and Home Affairs</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>JAI</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Christine</forename>
                                                       <surname>Roger</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.8532435" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Transport, Energy, Environment and Education</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>TREE</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Peter</forename>
                                                       <surname>Javorčik</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.85" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Communication and Information</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>COMM</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Agnieszka</forename>
                                                       <surname>Bartol</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.855423" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Competitiveness and Trade</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>COMPET</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Isabel</forename>
                                                       <surname>Riaño Ibáñez</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.855124" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Economic and Financial Affairs</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>ECOFIN</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Thomas</forename>
                                                       <surname>Westphal</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.05022020" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Translation Service</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>LING</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Deputy Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Máire</forename>
                                                       <surname>Killoran</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                                   <org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.04022020.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                                        <org-entry-head>
                                             <org-entry-name>Digital Services</org-entry-name>
                                             <abbr>SMART</abbr>
                                        </org-entry-head>
                                        <role-group>
                                             <role>Deputy Dir-Gen.</role>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>David</forename>
                                                       <surname>Galloway</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </role-group>
                                   </org-entry>
                              </org-list>
                         </int-org-section>
                         <int-org-section id="WB02046.IO.TXT.5" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="int-org_eu" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                              <heading>Permanent Representatives of Member States</heading>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="EU.IO.1024" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Austria</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <title>Dr</title>
                                                       <forename>Thomas</forename>
                                                       <surname>Oberreiter</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>30 ave de Cortenberg, 1040 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 234-51-00</telephone>
                                             <fax>(2) 235-61-00</fax>
                                             <email>bruessel-ov@bmeia.gv.at</email>
                                             <internet>www.bmeia.gv.at/oev-bruessel</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="EU.IO.2010" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Belgium</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Willem</forename>
                                                       <surname>van de Voorde</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>65 rue Belliard, 1040 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 233-21-11</telephone>
                                             <fax>(2) 231-10-75</fax>
                                             <email>info.belgoeurop@diplobel.fed.be</email>
                                             <internet>europeanunion.diplomatie.belgium.be</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <data-protection date-added="01.05.2007" ticked-box="Y" />
                                        <dir-entry-name>Bulgaria</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Rumen</forename>
                                                       <surname>Alexandrov</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>49 sq. Marie-Louise, 1000 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 235-83-01</telephone>
                                             <fax>(2) 374-91-88</fax>
                                             <email>mission.brusselseu@bg-permrep.eu</email>
                                             <internet>www.mfa.bg/embassies/belgiumpp</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="EU.IO.38568786" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Croatia</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Irena</forename>
                                                       <surname>Andrassy</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>108 rue d'Arlon, 1000 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 436-71-02</telephone>
                                             <fax>(2) 436-71-99</fax>
                                             <email>hr.perm.rep@mvep.hr</email>
                                             <internet>mvep.gov.hr/eu/en</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="EU.IO.3856" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Cyprus</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Christina</forename>
                                                       <surname>Rafti</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>61 ave de Cortenberg, 1000 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 739-51-11</telephone>
                                             <fax>(2) 735-45-52</fax>
                                             <email>cy.perm.rep@mfa.gov.cy</email>
                                             <internet>www.mfa.gov.cy/mfa/permrep/permrep_brussels.nsf/index_gr/index_gr?opendocument</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="EU.IO.6089" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Czech Republic</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Edita</forename>
                                                       <surname>Hrdá</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>15 rue Caroly, 1050 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 213-91-11</telephone>
                                             <fax>(2) 213-91-85</fax>
                                             <email>eu.brussels@embassy.mzv.cz</email>
                                             <internet>www.mzv.cz/representation_brussels</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="EU.IO.2011" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Denmark</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Carsten</forename>
                                                       <surname>Grønbech-Jensen</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>73 rue d’Arlon, 1040 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 233-08-11</telephone>
                                             <fax>(2) 230-93-84</fax>
                                             <email>brurep@um.dk</email>
                                             <internet>eu.um.dk</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="EU.IO.2850" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Estonia</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Aivo</forename>
                                                       <surname>Orav</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>11-13 rue Guimard, 1040 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 227-39-10</telephone>
                                             <email>permrep.eu@mfa.ee</email>
                                             <internet>eu.mfa.ee</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="EU.IO.2012" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Finland</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Markku</forename>
                                                       <surname>Keinänen</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>80 ave de Cortenbergh, 1000 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 287-84-11</telephone>
                                             <fax>(2) 287-84-05</fax>
                                             <email>sanomat.eue@formin.fi</email>
                                             <internet>www.finland.eu</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="EU.IO.2013" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>France</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Philippe</forename>
                                                       <surname>Léglise-Costa</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>14 place de Louvain, 1000 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 229-82-11</telephone>
                                             <fax>(2) 230-99-50</fax>
                                             <email>courrier.bruxelles-dfra@diplomatie.gouv.fr</email>
                                             <internet>www.rpfrance.eu</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="EU.IO.2014" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Germany</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Michael</forename>
                                                       <surname>Clauss</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>8-14 rue Jacques de Lalaing, 1040 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 787-10-00</telephone>
                                             <fax>(2) 787-20-00</fax>
                                             <email>info@bruessel-eu.diplo.de</email>
                                             <internet>www.bruessel-eu.diplo.de</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="EU.IO.2015" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Greece</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Ioannis</forename>
                                                       <surname>Vrailas</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>19-21 rue Jacques de Lalaing, 1040 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 551-56-11</telephone>
                                             <fax>(2) 551-56-51</fax>
                                             <email>mea.bruxelles@rp-grece.be</email>
                                             <internet>www.mfa.gr/brussels/permanent-representation-eu</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="EU.IO.5791" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Hungary</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Bálint</forename>
                                                       <surname>Ódor</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>92-98 rue de Trèves, 1040 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 234-12-00</telephone>
                                             <fax>(2) 372-07-84</fax>
                                             <email>sec.beu@mfa.gov.hu</email>
                                             <internet>brusszel.eu.kormany.hu</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="EU.IO.2016" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Ireland</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Aingeal</forename>
                                                       <surname>O’Donoghue</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>50 rue Froissart, 1040 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 282-32-11</telephone>
                                             <fax>(2) 230-32-03</fax>
                                             <email>irlprb@dfa.ie</email>
                                             <internet>www.ireland.ie/en/eu/brussels</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="EU.IO.2017" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Italy</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Vincenzo</forename>
                                                       <surname>Celeste</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>7-15 rue du Marteau, 1000 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 220-04-11</telephone>
                                             <fax>(2) 219-34-49</fax>
                                             <email>rpue@rpue.esteri.it</email>
                                             <internet>italiaue.esteri.it</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="EU.IO.3680" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Latvia</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Lelde</forename>
                                                       <surname>Līce-Līcīte</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>23 ave des Arts, 1000 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 238-31-00</telephone>
                                             <fax>(2) 238-32-50</fax>
                                             <email>permrep.eu@mfa.gov.lv</email>
                                             <internet>www2.mfa.gov.lv/en/brussels/representatives</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="EU.IO.5670" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Lithuania</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Arnoldas</forename>
                                                       <surname>Pranckevičius</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>41-43 rue Belliard, 1040 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 771-01-40</telephone>
                                             <fax>(2) 771-45-97</fax>
                                             <email>office@eu.mfa.lt</email>
                                             <internet>eu.mfa.lt/eurep/en/</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="EU.IO.2018" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Luxembourg</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Sylvie</forename>
                                                       <surname>Lucas</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>75 ave de Cortenberg, 1000 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 737-56-00</telephone>
                                             <fax>(2) 736-14-29</fax>
                                             <email>bruxelles.rpue@mae.etat.lu</email>
                                             <internet>bruxelles-rpue.mae.lu</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="EU.IO.5679" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Malta</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Marlene</forename>
                                                       <surname>Bonnici</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>25 rue d’Archimède, 1000 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 238-27-00</telephone>
                                             <email>maltarep@gov.mt</email>
                                             <internet>maltaineu.gov.mt</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="EU.IO.2019" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Netherlands</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Robert</forename>
                                                       <surname>de Groot</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>4-10 ave de Cortenberg, 1040 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 679-15-11</telephone>
                                             <fax>(2) 679-17-75</fax>
                                             <email>bre@minbuza.nl</email>
                                             <internet>www.permanentrepresentations.nl/permanent-representations/pr-eu-brussels</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="EU.IO.1196" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Poland</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Piotr</forename>
                                                       <surname>Serafin</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>acting</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>139 rue Stevin, 1000 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 780-42-00</telephone>
                                             <fax>(2) 780-42-97</fax>
                                             <email>bebrustpe@msz.gov.pl</email>
                                             <internet>www.gov.pl/web/eu/permanent-representation</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="EU.IO.2020" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Portugal</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Pedro</forename>
                                                       <surname>Lourtie</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>12 ave de Cortenberg, 1040 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 286-42-11</telephone>
                                             <fax>(2) 231-00-26</fax>
                                             <email>reper@reper-portugal.be</email>
                                             <internet>www.ue.missaoportugal.mne.pt</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Romania</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Iulia</forename>
                                                       <surname>Matei</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>107 ave de Cortenbergh, 1000 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 700-06-40</telephone>
                                             <fax>(2) 700-06-41</fax>
                                             <email>bru@rpro.eu</email>
                                             <internet>ue.mae.ro</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="EU.IO.5588" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Slovakia</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Petra</forename>
                                                       <surname>Vargová</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>79 ave de Cortenberg, 1000 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 743-68-11</telephone>
                                             <fax>(2) 743-68-88</fax>
                                             <email>eu.brussels@mzv.sk</email>
                                             <internet>mzv.sk/szbrusel-en</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="EU.IO.8827" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Slovenia</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Iztok</forename>
                                                       <surname>Jarc</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>45-46 blvd du Régent, 1000 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 213-63-00</telephone>
                                             <fax>(2) 213-63-01</fax>
                                             <email>slomission.eu@gov.si</email>
                                             <internet>brussels.representation.si</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="EU.IO.2023" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Spain</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Marcos Alonso</forename>
                                                       <surname>Alonso</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>52 blvd du Régent, 1000 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 509-86-11</telephone>
                                             <fax>(2) 511-19-40</fax>
                                             <email>reper.bruselasue@reper.maec.es</email>
                                             <internet>es-ue.org</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="EU.IO.2021" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Sweden</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Mikaela</forename>
                                                       <surname>Kumlin Granit</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                        <address-block>
                                             <address type="POSTAL">
                                                  <verbatim-address>30 sq. de Meeûs, 1000 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                                             </address>
                                             <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 289-56-11</telephone>
                                             <fax>(2) 289-56-00</fax>
                                             <email>representationen.bryssel@gov.se</email>
                                             <internet>www.regeringen.se/eu-representationen</internet>
                                        </address-block>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.73">Preparation and co-ordination of the Council’s work (with the exception of agricultural issues, which are handled by the Special Committee on Agriculture) is entrusted to a Committee of Permanent Representatives, which meets in Brussels on a weekly basis and which comprises the permanent representatives of the member countries to the Union (who have senior ambassadorial status). A staff of national civil servants assists each ambassador.</p>
                         </int-org-section>
                    </int-org-block>
               </int-org-entry>
          </int-org-entryref>
          <int-org-entryref id="SL3298622" int-org-entrydtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="3298621" slsdocid="3277832" slsdocty="int-org-entry int-org-entrydtd">
               
               <int-org-entry id="EU.IO.1298905234" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <int-org-entry-head>
                         <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                              <org-entry-name>European External Action Service</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>EEAS</abbr>
                         </int-org-name-group>
                    </int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-block>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>
                9
                <sc>a</sc>
                 rond point Schuman, 1046 Brussels, Belgium
              </verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 584-11-11</telephone>
                              <internet>www.eeas.europa.eu</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <p id="IO-EU.EEAS.5">The Treaty of Lisbon, which entered into force in December 2009, created the new position of High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. The EEAS was formally established at the beginning of December 2010, as the EU’s foreign policy and diplomatic service. The High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, who is also a Vice-President of the Commission, is responsible for the co-ordination of the EEAS, and chairs monthly meetings of the Foreign Affairs Council, which comprises EU ministers responsible for foreign affairs, for defence and for development. EU Special Representatives are active in countries and regions worldwide in an effort to support the work of the High Representative in promoting peace, stability and the rule of law. The EEAS, an independent body, incorporated functions of the Commission and the Council that had hitherto been responsible for foreign affairs, and has its own budget.</p>
                         <p>The EEAS comprises six regional departments, each headed by a managing director: Africa; the Americas; Asia and the Pacific; Europe; Eastern Europe and Central Asia; and the Middle East and North Africa. Another department focuses on the Global Agenda and Multilateral Relations. In June 2016 the High Representative, Federica Mogherini, presented the EU’s new Global Strategy on Foreign and Security Policy, entitled `Shared Vision, Common Action: A Stronger Europe’. The Global Strategy identified five principal objectives, namely increasing security and defence capabilities; bolstering the resilience of regions to the east and south of the EU; adopting an integrated response to conflict and crises; regional co-operation; and supporting global governance on the basis of international law. Josep Borrell Fontelles succeeded Mogherini as High Representative on 1 December 2019.</p>
                         <dir-list>
                              <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                   <dir-entry-name>High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy</dir-entry-name>
                                   <person-group>
                                        <person>
                                             <person-name>
                                                  <forename>Josep</forename>
                                                  <surname>Borrell Fontelles</surname>
                                             </person-name>
                                             <person-note>Spain</person-note>
                                        </person>
                                   </person-group>
                              </dir-entry>
                              <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.2057878" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                                   <dir-entry-name>Secretary-General</dir-entry-name>
                                   <person-group>
                                        <person>
                                             <person-name>
                                                  <forename>Stefano</forename>
                                                  <surname>Sannino</surname>
                                             </person-name>
                                             <person-note>Italy</person-note>
                                        </person>
                                   </person-group>
                              </dir-entry>
                         </dir-list>
                    </int-org-block>
               </int-org-entry>
          </int-org-entryref>
          <int-org-entryref id="SL1115897" int-org-entrydtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1115896" slsdocid="1101659" slsdocty="int-org-entry int-org-entrydtd">
               
               <int-org-entry id="SL1101761" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <int-org-entry-head>
                         <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                              <org-entry-name>European Parliament</org-entry-name>
                         </int-org-name-group>
                    </int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-block>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Plateau du Kirchberg, BP 1601, 2929 Luxembourg (Secretariat)</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">4300-1</telephone>
                              <email>epluxembourg@europarl.europa.eu</email>
                              <internet>www.europarl.europa.eu</internet>
                         </address-block>
                    </int-org-block>
                    <int-org-section id="WB02047.IO.TXT.428" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                         <heading>President and Members</heading>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.116" usage="ewyb edio casee">
            Members of the European Parliament (EP) are elected for a five-year term by direct universal suffrage and proportional representation by the citizens of the member states (there is no standard electoral system across all the member states). Members sit in the Chamber in transnational political, not national, groups. The EP has three main roles: sharing with the Council of the European Union the power to legislate; holding authority over the annual Union budget (again, jointly with the Council), including the power to adopt or reject it in its entirety; and exercising a measure of demo­cratic control over the executive organs of the EU, the Commission and the Council. Notably, it has the power to dismiss the 
            <xr pageref="N" ref="SL1101617">European Commission</xr>
             as a whole by a vote of censure (requiring a two-thirds’ majority of the votes cast, which must also be a majority of the total parliamentary membership). The EP does not exercise the authority, however, to dismiss individual Commissioners. In­creases in parliamentary powers were brought about through amendments to the Treaty of Rome. The Single European Act, which entered into force on 1 July 1987, introduced, in certain circumstances where the Council normally adopts legislation through majority voting, a co-operation procedure involving a second parliamentary reading, enabling the EP to amend legislation. EU agreements with third countries require parliamentary approval. The Treaty on European Union, which came into force in November 1993, introduced the co-decision procedure, permitting a third parliamentary reading (see 
            <xr pageref="N" ref="SL1101631">
                                   <i>Council of the European Union</i>
                              </xr>
            ). The treaty also gives the EP the right potentially to veto legislation, and allows it to approve or reject the nomination of Commissioners (including the President of the Commission). The EP appoints the European Ombudsman from among its members, who investigates reports of maladministration in EU institutions.
          </p>
                         <p>
            The Treaty of Amsterdam, which entered into force in May 1999, expanded and simplified the EP’s legislative role. The co-decision procedure between the EP and the Council was extended into a wider range of policy areas. The treaty also stipulated that the President of the Commission must be formally approved by the EP. In addition, international agreements, treaty decisions and the accession of new member states all require the assent of the EP. The Treaty of Nice, which came into force in February 2003, further extended the use of co-decision and introduced a new distribution of seats in the EP. The Treaty of Lisbon again extended the EP’s right of co-decision with the Council, and made provision for a maximum number of seats of 751 (750 voting members and the President), with each member state being entitled to a 
            
            minimum of six and a maximum of 96 seats, on a proportional basis. Under the treaty 18 additional seats were allocated to 12 member states, while Germany lost three seats. In September 2023 the EP approved a European Council proposal that 15 additional seats (divided between 12 member states) be allocated for the elections to be held in June 2024, owing to demographic changes in the EU, bringing the total number of MEPs to 720: two additional seats each for France, the Netherlands and Spain; and one additional seat each for Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Ireland, Latvia, Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia) 
          </p>
                         <table-block id="WB02047.IO.TXT.94" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="TABLE-BLOCKREF" type="OTHER" usage="ewyb edio">
                              <table-heading>Distribution of seats at the constitutive session, 8 July 2019</table-heading>
                              <table pgwide="NO" style="WITH-RULES">
                                   <tgroup cols="2">
                                        <colspec colwidth="15cm" />
                                        <colspec colwidth="5cm" />
                                        <thead>
                                             <row>
                                                  <entry align="left" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Parliamentary Groups</entry>
                                                  <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">Seats</entry>
                                             </row>
                                        </thead>
                                        <tbody>
                                             <row>
                                                  <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) (EPP)</entry>
                                                  <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">182</entry>
                                             </row>
                                             <row>
                                                  <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats (S&amp;D)</entry>
                                                  <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">154</entry>
                                             </row>
                                             <row>
                                                  <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Renew Europe</entry>
                                                  <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">108</entry>
                                             </row>
                                             <row>
                                                  <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance (Greens/EFA)</entry>
                                                  <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">74</entry>
                                             </row>
                                             <row>
                                                  <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Identity and Democracy</entry>
                                                  <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">73</entry>
                                             </row>
                                             <row>
                                                  <entry style="DOT-LEADER">European Conservatives and Reformists Group (ECR)</entry>
                                                  <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">62</entry>
                                             </row>
                                             <row>
                                                  <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left (GUE/NGL)</entry>
                                                  <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">41</entry>
                                             </row>
                                             <row>
                                                  <entry style="DOT-LEADER">Others</entry>
                                                  <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">57</entry>
                                             </row>
                                             <row>
                                                  <entry align="left" style="DOT-LEADER">
                                                       <b>Total</b>
                                                  </entry>
                                                  <entry align="right" style="NO-DOT-LEADER">751</entry>
                                             </row>
                                        </tbody>
                                   </tgroup>
                              </table>
                         </table-block>
                         <p usage="ewyb edio casee">With effect from June 2009 the minimum number of members required to form a political group under the EP’s rules of procedure was fixed at 25, from a minimum of seven member states.</p>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.117" usage="ewyb edio casee">The EP has an annual session, divided into around 12 one-week meetings, attended by all members and normally held in Strasbourg, France. The session opens with the March meeting. Committee meetings, political group meetings and additional plenary sittings of the EP are held in Brussels, Belgium, while the parliamentary administrative offices are based in Luxembourg.</p>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.118" usage="ewyb edio casee">The budgetary powers of the EP (which, together with the Council, forms the Budgetary Authority of the EU) were in­creased to their present status by a treaty of 22 July 1975. Under this treaty the EP can amend non-agricultural spending and reject the draft budget, acting by a majority of its members and two-thirds of the votes cast. The EP debates the draft budget in two successive readings, and it does not come into force until it has been signed by the President of the Parliament. The Parliament’s Committee on Budgetary Control monitors how the budget is spent, and each year the Parliament decides whether to approve the Commission’s handling of the budget for the previous financial year (a process technically known as `granting a discharge’).</p>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.119" usage="ewyb edio casee">The EP is run by a Bureau comprising the President, 14 Vice-Presidents elected from its members by secret ballot to serve for two-and-a-half years, and the five members of the College of Quaestors. The Conference of Presidents is the political governing body of the EP, with responsibility for formulating the agenda for plenary sessions and the timetable for the work of parliamentary bodies, and for establishing the terms of reference and the size of committees and delegations. It comprises the President of the EP and the Chairs of the political groups.</p>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.120" usage="ewyb edio casee">The majority of the EP’s work is conducted by 20 Standing Parliamentary Committees, which correspond to different policy areas and various European Commission agencies: Foreign Affairs (including Human Rights and Security and Defence); Development; International Trade; Budgets; Budgetary Control; Economic and Monetary Affairs; Employment and Social Affairs; Environment, Public Health and Food Safety; Industry, Research and Energy; Internal Market and Consumer Protection; Transport and Tourism; Regional Development; Agriculture and Rural Development; Fisheries; Culture and Education; Legal Affairs; Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs; Constitutional Affairs; Women’s Rights and Gender Equality; and Petitions.</p>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.121" usage="ewyb edio">The first direct elections to the EP took place in June 1979, and the Parliament met for the first time in July. The second elections were held in June 1984 (with separate elections held in Portugal and Spain in 1987, following the accession of these two countries), the third in June 1989, and the fourth in June 1994. Direct elections to the EP were held in Sweden in September 1995, and in Austria and Finland in October 1996. The fifth EP was elected in June 1999, and the sixth in June 2004, following the mass accession of 10 new member states in May of that year. Elections to the seventh EP were held in June 2009. Given the admission of Croatia to the EU in July 2013, in late June the European Council adopted a resolution adjusting the allocation of seats in the 2014-19 Parliament.</p>
                         <p>In January 2018 the Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Affairs voted to redistribute 27 of the 73 seats occupied by British members of the EP following the UK’s departure from the EU (which took place in January 2020), while the overall number of seats was to be reduced to 705. The remaining 46 seats were to remain unfilled, but would potentially be used by acceding member states. Elections to the ninth EP took place on 23-26 May 2019. The overall rate of participation by the electorate was 50.6%, compared with 42.6% in 2014. Elections to the 10th EP were scheduled for 6-9 June 2024.</p>
                         <dir-list>
                              <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.92" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                                   <dir-entry-name>President</dir-entry-name>
                                   <person-group>
                                        <person>
                                             <person-name>
                                                  <forename>Roberta</forename>
                                                  <surname>Metsola</surname>
                                             </person-name>
                                             <person-note>Malta</person-note>
                                        </person>
                                   </person-group>
                              </dir-entry>
                         </dir-list>
                    </int-org-section>
               </int-org-entry>
          </int-org-entryref>
          <int-org-entryref id="SL1115910" int-org-entrydtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1115909" slsdocid="1101818" slsdocty="int-org-entry int-org-entrydtd">
               
               <int-org-entry id="WB02048.IO.TXT.200305091605" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                    <int-org-entry-head>
                         <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                              <org-entry-name>European Ombudsman</org-entry-name>
                         </int-org-name-group>
                    </int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-block>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>1 ave du Président Robert Schuman, BP 30403, 67001 Strasbourg Cedex, France</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">3-88-17-23-13</telephone>
                              <internet>www.ombudsman.europa.eu</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.124">
            The position was created by the Treaty on European Union (the Maastricht Treaty), and the first Ombudsman took office in July 1995. The Ombudsman is appointed by the European Parliame
            
            nt (EP)—from among its own members—for a renewable five-year term (to run concurrently with that of the EP). The Ombudsman is authorized to receive complaints (from EU citizens, businesses and institutions, and from anyone residing or having their legal domicile in an EU member state) regarding maladministration in Union institutions and bodies (except in the Court of Justice and the General Court), to make recommendations, and to refer any matters to the Parliament. The Ombudsman submits an annual report on their activities to the EP.
          </p>
                         <dir-list>
                              <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.125" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                   <dir-entry-name>European Ombudsman</dir-entry-name>
                                   <person-group>
                                        <person>
                                             <person-name>
                                                  <forename>Emily</forename>
                                                  <surname>O’Reilly</surname>
                                             </person-name>
                                             <person-note>Ireland</person-note>
                                        </person>
                                   </person-group>
                              </dir-entry>
                         </dir-list>
                    </int-org-block>
               </int-org-entry>
          </int-org-entryref>
          <int-org-entryref id="SL1115920" int-org-entrydtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1115919" slsdocid="1101824" slsdocty="int-org-entry int-org-entrydtd">
               
               <int-org-entry id="SL1101847" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <!--rc 14.01.2021 ditto-->
                    <!--GS 13.12.2016 No email.only contact form-->
                    <!--GS 02.02.2016 Email could not be confirmed-->
                    <int-org-entry-head>
                         <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                              <org-entry-name>Court of Justice</org-entry-name>
                         </int-org-name-group>
                    </int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-block>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Palais de la Cour de Justice, blvd Konrad Adenauer, 2925 Luxembourg</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">4303-1</telephone>
                              <internet>curia.europa.eu</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.130" usage="ewyb edio casee">The Court of Justice (informally referred to as the European Court of Justice—ECJ) forms part of the Court of Justice of the European Union. It acts to safeguard EU legislation and has jurisdiction over cases concerning member states, EU institutions, undertakings or individuals. The Court ensures uniform interpretation and application of EU law. The judges (one per member state) and the 11 advocates-general are each appointed for a renewable term of six years. Judges and advocates-general are partially replaced every three years. The role of the advocates-general is—publicly and impartially—to deliver reasoned opinions on the cases brought before the Court. The President of the Court, who has overall charge of the Court’s work and presides at hearings and deliberations, is elected by the judges from among their number for a renewable term of three years. The Court does not always sit as a full court, it may instead sit as a Grand Chamber of 15 judges or, as is the case with the majority of cases, as a smaller chamber of three or five judges. The Court may sit in plenary session in cases of particular importance or when a member state or Union institution that is a party to the proceedings so requests. Judgments are reached by a majority vote and are signed by all judges involved in the case, irrespective of how they voted. The Court has jurisdiction to award damages. It may review the legality of acts (other than recommendations or opin­ions) of the Council, the Commission or the European Central Bank, of acts adopted jointly by the European Parliament and the Council, and of acts adopted by the Parliament and intended to produce legal effects vis-à-vis third parties. It is also competent to pass judgment on actions by a member state, the Council or the Commission on grounds of lack of competence, of infringement of an essential procedural requirement, of infringement of a treaty or of any legal rule relating to its application, or of misuse of power. The Court of Justice may hear appeals, on a point of law only, from the General Court.</p>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.131" usage="ewyb edio casee">The Court is empowered to hear certain other cases concerning contractual and non-contractual liability and disputes between member states in connection with the objects of the treaties. It also gives preliminary rulings at the request of national courts on the interpretation of the treaties, of Union legislation, and of the Brussels Convention on Jurisdiction and the Enforcement of Judgments in Civil and Commercial Matters.</p>
                         <dir-list>
                              <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.100000" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                   <dir-entry-name>President of the Court of Justice</dir-entry-name>
                                   <person-group>
                                        <person>
                                             <person-name>
                                                  <forename>Koen</forename>
                                                  <surname>Lenaerts</surname>
                                             </person-name>
                                             <person-note>Belgium</person-note>
                                        </person>
                                   </person-group>
                              </dir-entry>
                              <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                   <dir-entry-name>Registrar</dir-entry-name>
                                   <person-group>
                                        <person>
                                             <person-name>
                                                  <forename>Alfredo</forename>
                                                  <surname>Calot Escobar</surname>
                                             </person-name>
                                             <person-note>Spain</person-note>
                                        </person>
                                   </person-group>
                              </dir-entry>
                         </dir-list>
                    </int-org-block>
               </int-org-entry>
          </int-org-entryref>
          <int-org-entryref id="SL1115927" int-org-entrydtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1115926" slsdocid="1101849" slsdocty="int-org-entry int-org-entrydtd">
               
               <int-org-entry id="SL1101879" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <!--GS 13.12.2016 Email could not be confirmed-->
                    <int-org-entry-head>
                         <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                              <org-entry-name>General Court</org-entry-name>
                         </int-org-name-group>
                    </int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-block>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Palais de la Cour de Justice, blvd Konrad Adenauer, 2925 Luxembourg</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">4303-1</telephone>
                              <internet>curia.europa.eu</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.159" usage="ewyb edio casee">The General Court was established, as the Court of First Instance of the European Communities, by the European Council under a decision of October 1988, and began operations in 1989. Its current name was adopted following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon on 1 December 2009. In order to help the Court of Justice to deal with the thousands of cases brought before it and to offer citizens better legal protection, the General Court (which, although independent, forms part of the Court of Justice of the European Union) deals with cases brought by individuals, legal entities and member states against the actions of EU institutions. The decisions of the General Court may be subject to appeal to the Court of Justice, on issues of law, within two months.</p>
                         <p>
            In December 2015 the Council adopted a regulation reforming the General Court. In September 2016 the specialized Civil Service Tribunal (constituted in 2005) merged with the General Court, and its judges became part of the merged institution. The General Court is composed of two judges from each member state, appointed for a renewable six-year term by the governments of member st
            
            ates, and by common agreement. The President is elected from among the judges, for a three-year term of office. A Registrar is appointed for a term of six years. Unlike the Court of Justice, the General Court has no advocates-general, although that role may (exceptionally) be performed by a judge. Cases are brought before chambers comprising three or five judges or, on occasion, a single judge. Cases may also be heard by a 15-member Grand Chamber should the complexity or significance of a case demand it.
          </p>
                         <dir-list>
                              <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.100024" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                   <dir-entry-name>President of the General Court</dir-entry-name>
                                   <person-group>
                                        <person>
                                             <person-name>
                                                  <forename>Marc</forename>
                                                  <surname>van der Woude</surname>
                                             </person-name>
                                             <person-note>Netherlands</person-note>
                                        </person>
                                   </person-group>
                              </dir-entry>
                              <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.1830" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                   <dir-entry-name>Registrar</dir-entry-name>
                                   <person-group>
                                        <person>
                                             <person-name>
                                                  <forename>Vittorio</forename>
                                                  <surname>Di Bucci</surname>
                                             </person-name>
                                             <person-note>Italy</person-note>
                                        </person>
                                   </person-group>
                              </dir-entry>
                         </dir-list>
                    </int-org-block>
               </int-org-entry>
          </int-org-entryref>
          <int-org-entryref id="SL1115934" int-org-entrydtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1115933" slsdocid="1101865" slsdocty="int-org-entry int-org-entrydtd">
               
               <int-org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.200305091613" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <int-org-entry-head>
                         <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                              <org-entry-name>European Court of Auditors</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>ECA</abbr>
                         </int-org-name-group>
                    </int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-block>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>12 rue Alcide de Gasperi, 1615 Luxembourg</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">4398-1</telephone>
                              <email>eca-info@eca.europa.eu</email>
                              <internet>www.eca.europa.eu</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.179" usage="ewyb edio casee">The ECA was created by the Treaty of Brussels, which was signed on 22 July 1975, and it commenced its duties in late 1977. It was given the status of an institution on a par with the Commission, the Council, the Court of Justice and the Parliament by the Treaty on European Union. It is the institution responsible for the external audit of the resources managed by the EU. The entry into effect of the Treaty of Lisbon in 2009 confirmed the Court’s mandate and status as an institution of the EU; in addition, the treaty introduced changes to the way that funds are managed. It consists of one member from each member state, appointed for a renewable six-year term (under a qualified majority voting system) by the Council, after consultation with the European Parliament (EP). The members elect the President of the Court from among their number for a renewable term of three years.</p>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.180" usage="ewyb edio casee">The Court is organized and acts as a collegiate body. It adopts its decisions by a majority of its members. Each member, however, has a direct responsibility for the audit of certain sectors of Union activity.</p>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.181" usage="ewyb edio casee">The Court examines the accounts of all expenditure and revenue of the EU and of any body created by them in so far as the relevant constituent instrument does not preclude such examination. It examines whether all revenue has been received and all expenditure incurred in a lawful and regular manner and whether the financial management has been sound. The audit is based on records, and if necessary is performed directly in the institutions of the Union, in the member states and in other countries. In the member states the audit is carried out in co-operation with the national audit bodies. The Court of Auditors draws up an annual report after the close of each financial year. The Court provides the EP and the Council with a statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts, and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. It may also, at any time, submit observations on specific questions (usually in the form of special reports) and deliver opinions at the request of one of the institutions of the Union. It assists the EP and the Council in exercising their powers of control over the implementation of the budget, in particular within the framework of the annual discharge procedure, and gives its prior opinion on financial regulations, on the methods and procedure whereby budgetary revenue is made available to the Commission, and on the formulation of rules concerning the responsibility of authorizing officers and accounting officers and concerning appropriate arrangements for inspection.</p>
                         <dir-list>
                              <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.182" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                                   <dir-entry-name>President</dir-entry-name>
                                   <person-group>
                                        <person>
                                             <person-name>
                                                  <forename>Tony</forename>
                                                  <surname>Murphy</surname>
                                             </person-name>
                                             <person-note>Ireland</person-note>
                                        </person>
                                   </person-group>
                              </dir-entry>
                              <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.188" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                                   <dir-entry-name>Secretary-General</dir-entry-name>
                                   <person-group>
                                        <person>
                                             <person-name>
                                                  <forename>Zacharias</forename>
                                                  <surname>Kolias</surname>
                                             </person-name>
                                             <person-note>Greece</person-note>
                                        </person>
                                   </person-group>
                              </dir-entry>
                         </dir-list>
                    </int-org-block>
               </int-org-entry>
          </int-org-entryref>
          <int-org-entryref id="SL1115942" int-org-entrydtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1115941" slsdocid="1101886" slsdocty="int-org-entry int-org-entrydtd">
               
               <int-org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.200305091614" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <int-org-entry-head>
                         <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                              <org-entry-name>European Central Bank</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>ECB</abbr>
                         </int-org-name-group>
                    </int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-block>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Sonnemannstr. 22, 60314 Frankfurt am Main, Germany; 60640 Frankfurt am Main, Germany</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(69) 134401300</telephone>
                              <email>info@ecb.europa.eu</email>
                              <internet>www.ecb.europa.eu</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.192" usage="ewyb edio casee">The ECB was formally established on 1 June 1998 (replacing the European Monetary Institute, which had been operational since January 1994), with the authority to issue the single currency, the euro, which replaced the European Currency Unit on 1 January 1999, at the beginning of Stage III of Economic and Monetary Union, in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty on European Union (the Maastricht Treaty). One of the ECB’s main tasks was to maintain price stability in the euro area or eurozone (i.e. in those member states using the euro as their national currency).</p>
                         <p>
            In September 2012 the European Commission proposed that, in response to a debt crisis in the eurozone, and as part of plans for the introduction of a banking union, the powers of the ECB should be considerably expanded, to enable it to act as a so-called Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM). In December the Council endorsed plans for the SSM to hold responsibility for the supervision of some 200 major banks (those with assets of more than €30,000m., or 20% of national gross domestic product) in operation throughout the eurozone. The SSM was to co-operate closely with national regulatory authorities, with the aim of safeguarding financial stability. In March 2013 the European Parliament (EP) and the Council reached political agreement on the SSM package, and in October the Council of the European Union formally adopted a regulation on the creation of an ECB-led SSM, which commenced operations on 4 November 2014. An inter
            
            institutional agreement with the EP on the ECB’s role within the framework of the SSM entered into force in November 2013. Meanwhile, in July the Commission had proposed a complementary Single Resolution Mechanism (SRM) to centralize the fundamental responsibilities and resources for managing failing banks in the eurozone, and throughout the banking union’s member states; the SRM became fully operational at the end of December 2015, comprising an independent EU agency, the Single Resolution Board, and a common resolution fund, financed by the banking sector. An ECB strategy review was launched in early 2020, following which, in July 2021, the ECB adopted a new action plan, providing for the increased incorporation into its policy framework of objectives relating to climate change and introducing a medium-term inflation target of 2%.
          </p>
                         <p>The ECB’s leadership is pro­vided by an Executive Board, appointed by common agreement of the Presidents or Prime Ministers of the 20 eurozone countries for a non-renewable term of eight years (the Statute of the European System of Central Banks—ESCB—provides for a system of staggered appointments to the Executive Board for members other than the President in order to ensure continuity). The Executive Board is responsible for the preparation of meetings of the Governing Council, the implementation of monetary policy in accordance with the guidelines and decisions laid down by the Governing Council and for the current business of the ECB. The ECB and the national central banks of all EU member states together comprise the ESCB; the Eurosystem, meanwhile, refers to the ECB and the national central banks of those countries using the euro as their national currency. The Governing Council, which is the ECB’s highest decision-making body and which consists of the six members of the Executive Board and the governors of the central banks of eurozone member countries, usually meets twice a month. The prime mission of the Governing Council is to define the monetary policy of the eurozone and, in particular, to fix the interest rates at which the commercial banks can obtain money from the ECB. The General Council is the ECB’s third decision-making body; it comprises the ECB’s President, the Vice-President and the governors of the central banks of all EU member states. The Supervisory Board meets twice a month to discuss the ECB’s supervisory responsibilities.</p>
                         <dir-list>
                              <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.193" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                                   <dir-entry-name>President</dir-entry-name>
                                   <person-group>
                                        <person>
                                             <person-name>
                                                  <forename>Christine</forename>
                                                  <surname>Lagarde</surname>
                                             </person-name>
                                             <person-note>France</person-note>
                                        </person>
                                   </person-group>
                              </dir-entry>
                              <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.194" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                                   <dir-entry-name>Vice-President</dir-entry-name>
                                   <person-group>
                                        <person>
                                             <person-name>
                                                  <forename>Luis</forename>
                                                  <surname>de Guindos</surname>
                                             </person-name>
                                             <person-note>Spain</person-note>
                                        </person>
                                   </person-group>
                              </dir-entry>
                         </dir-list>
                    </int-org-block>
               </int-org-entry>
          </int-org-entryref>
          <int-org-entryref id="SL1115951" int-org-entrydtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1115950" slsdocid="1101888" slsdocty="int-org-entry int-org-entrydtd">
               
               <int-org-entry id="SL1103189" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <int-org-entry-head>
                         <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                              <org-entry-name>European Investment Bank</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>EIB</abbr>
                         </int-org-name-group>
                    </int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-block>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>98-100 blvd Konrad Adenauer, 2950 Luxembourg</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">4379-1</telephone>
                              <email>info@eib.org</email>
                              <internet>www.eib.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.198" usage="ewyb edio casee">The EIB is the EU’s long-term financing institution, created in 1958 by the six founder member states of the European Economic Community. The shareholders are the member states of the EU, which have all subscribed to the bank’s capital. The bulk of the EIB’s resources comes from borrowings, principally public bond issues or private placements on capital markets inside and outside the Union. The EIB works on the basis of a three-year operational plan, which is approved by its Board of Directors and revised annually.</p>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.199" usage="ewyb edio casee">The EIB’s principal task, defined by the Treaty of Rome (now known as the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union), is to work on a non-profit basis, making or guaranteeing loans for investment projects that contribute to the balanced and steady development of EU member states. Throughout the Bank’s history, priority has been given to financing investment projects that further regional development within the Union. The EIB also finances projects that improve communications, protect and improve the environment, promote urban development, stren­gthen the competitive position of industry and encourage industrial integration within the Union, support the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), and help to ensure the security of energy supplies. Following a recommendation of the European Council in March 2000 for greater support for SMEs, the Board of Governors set up the EIB Group, consisting of the EIB and the European Investment Fund (EIF). Most EIB financing is allocated to projects within the EU. Lending outside the EU is usually based on Union agreements, but exceptions have been made for specific projects in certain countries. EIB Group disbursements amounted to some €87,850m. in 2023.</p>
                         <p>In November 2014 the Presidents of the EIB and of the European Commission proposed the establishment of an Investment Plan for Europe, to stimulate investment in Europe-wide strategic projects. As a fundamental part of the Plan, in 2015 the EIB launched the European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFSI) to help mobilize investment for economically viable projects, including higher-risk projects that might fall outside the scope of usual EIB activities. Since 2021 the EFSI has formed a principal part of the EU’s new InvestEU fund, together with 13 other EU financial instruments, and the EU budget provides a guarantee of €19,700m. The EIB Group holds responsibility for the implementation of some 75% of the EU budget guarantee.</p>
                         <p>The EIB was to assist the European Green Deal; it pledged to cease to support finance for fossil fuels, and by 2025 50% of lending was to be directed to environmentally friendly projects (compared with the previous level of some 28%). For 2022-24 the EIB was also launching EIB Global, to support development projects outside the EU.</p>
                         <p>In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, in mid-March 2020 the EIB Group announced proposals for an emergency response package for banks to help to make support available for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). In addition, in April the EIB agreed to establish a €25,000m. Pan-European Guarantee Fund (EGF) to enable the EIB Group to expand its response to the economic impact of the pandemic.</p>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.201" usage="ewyb edio casee">The Board of Governors of the EIB, which usually meets once a year, lays down general directives on credit policy, approves the annual report and accounts and decides on capital increases. The Board of Directors meets once a month, and has sole power to take decisions in respect of loans, guarantees and borrowings. The Bank’s President presides over meetings of the Board of Directors. The day-to-day management of operations is the responsibility of the Management Committee, which is the EIB’s collegiate executive body and recommends decisions to the Board of Directors. The Audit Committee is an independent body, which reports to the Board of Governors regarding the management of operations and the maintenance of the Bank’s accounts.</p>
                         <org-list>
                              <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>Board of Governors</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">The Board of Governors comprises one minister (usually the minister with responsibility for finance or economic affairs) from each member state.</content-note>
                                   <dir-list>
                                        <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                             <dir-entry-name>Chairperson</dir-entry-name>
                                             <person-group>
                                                  <person>
                                                       <person-name>
                                                            <forename>Vincent</forename>
                                                            <surname>Van Peteghem</surname>
                                                       </person-name>
                                                       <person-note>Belgium</person-note>
                                                  </person>
                                             </person-group>
                                        </dir-entry>
                                   </dir-list>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>Board of Directors</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">The Board of Directors consists of 28 directors, appointed for a renewable five-year term, with one director appointed by each member state and one by the European Commission. There are 31 alternates, also appointed for a renewable five-year term, meaning that some of these positions will be shared by groupings of countries. Since 1 May 2004 decisions have been taken by a majority consisting of at least one-third of members entitled to vote and representing at least 50% of the subscribed capital.</content-note>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>Management Committee</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">The Management Committee comprises the President and eight Vice-Presidents, nominated for a renewable six-year term by the Board of Directors and approved by the Board of Governors. The President presides over the meetings of the Management Committee but does not vote.</content-note>
                                   <dir-list>
                                        <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.205" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                                             <dir-entry-name>President</dir-entry-name>
                                             <person-group>
                                                  <person>
                                                       <person-name>
                                                            <forename>Nadia</forename>
                                                            <surname>Calviño Santamaría</surname>
                                                       </person-name>
                                                       <person-note>Spain</person-note>
                                                  </person>
                                             </person-group>
                                        </dir-entry>
                                   </dir-list>
                              </org-entry>
                              <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF">
                                   <org-entry-head>
                                        <org-entry-name>Audit Committee</org-entry-name>
                                   </org-entry-head>
                                   <content-note style="NORMAL">The Audit Committee is composed of six members, appointed by the Governors for a non-renewable six-year term of office.</content-note>
                                   <dir-list>
                                        <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                             <dir-entry-name>Chairperson</dir-entry-name>
                                             <person-group>
                                                  <person>
                                                       <person-name>
                                                            <forename>Christos G.</forename>
                                                            <surname>Triantopoulos</surname>
                                                       </person-name>
                                                       <person-note>Greece</person-note>
                                                  </person>
                                             </person-group>
                                        </dir-entry>
                                   </dir-list>
                              </org-entry>
                         </org-list>
                    </int-org-block>
               </int-org-entry>
          </int-org-entryref>
          <int-org-entryref id="SL1597319" int-org-entrydtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1597318" slsdocid="1597008" slsdocty="int-org-entry int-org-entrydtd">
               
               <int-org-entry id="INT-ORG_EU.1145971987" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                    <int-org-entry-head>
                         <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                              <org-entry-name>European Investment Fund</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>EIF</abbr>
                         </int-org-name-group>
                    </int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-block>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>
                37
                <sc>b</sc>
                 ave J. F. Kennedy, 2968 Luxembourg
              </verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">2485-1</telephone>
                              <email>info@eif.org</email>
                              <internet>www.eif.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.362">The EIF was founded in 1994 as a specialized financial institution to support the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). Its operations are focused on helping SMEs to gain access to equity, through investment in funds that support SMEs, and on guarantee activities. The Fund makes use of risk-sharing principles. The EIF is oper­ational in the member states of the EU, and candidate and potential candidate countries, and in the member countries of the European Free Trade Association.</p>
                         <dir-list>
                              <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.363" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                   <dir-entry-name>Chief Executive</dir-entry-name>
                                   <person-group>
                                        <person>
                                             <person-name>
                                                  <forename>Marjut</forename>
                                                  <surname>Falkstedt</surname>
                                             </person-name>
                                             <person-note>Finland</person-note>
                                        </person>
                                   </person-group>
                              </dir-entry>
                         </dir-list>
                    </int-org-block>
               </int-org-entry>
          </int-org-entryref>
          <int-org-entryref id="SL4007216" int-org-entrydtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="4007215" slsdocid="3953624" slsdocty="int-org-entry int-org-entrydtd">
               
               <int-org-entry id="EU.IO.1360072783" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                    <int-org-entry-head>
                         <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                              <org-entry-name>European Stability Mechanism</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>ESM</abbr>
                         </int-org-name-group>
                    </int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-block>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <addressline>
                6
                <sc>a</sc>
                 circuit de la Foire Internationale, 1347 Luxembourg
              </addressline>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(352) 2609620</telephone>
                              <email>info@esm.europa.eu</email>
                              <internet>www.esm.europa.eu</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <p>
            The ESM was conceived as an international financial institution, the purpose of which is to make available financial assistance to member countries, where necessary, in order to ensure financial stability. The ESM was inaugurated on 8 October 2012, when the Board of Governors, comprising eurozone ministers responsible for finance, held its first meeting. The ESM effectively superseded a temporary funding programme, the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF—which came under the management of the ESM and remained responsible only for lending approved prior to its establishment), and the associated emergency funding mechanism, the European Financial Stabilization Mechanism. The ESM has total subscribed, authorized capital of €704,800m. Eurozone member states may apply for funding from the ESM if they are experiencing serious financial difficulties or if their financial sector is considered to threaten stability and require recapitalization. Applications are subject to two conditions: the member state must have signed a memorandum of understanding outlining the reforms to be undertaken; and it must have ratified the Treaty on Stability, Co-ordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union. The ESM has provided financial assistance to Greece, Cyprus, Portugal, Ireland and Spain. It also established Pandemic Crisis Support, a credit line available to ESM members until the end of 2022 in order to support financing by individual member states of health care, treatment- and prevention-related costs resulting from the COVID-19 crisis. The ESM’s Managing Director serves a five-year term. The Chairperson
            
             of the Board of Governors is also President of the Eurogroup, an informal council of ministers of finance and of the economy of the 20 member states participating in economic and monetary union.
          </p>
                         <dir-list>
                              <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                   <dir-entry-name>Managing Director of the ESM</dir-entry-name>
                                   <person-group>
                                        <person>
                                             <person-name>
                                                  <forename>Pierre</forename>
                                                  <surname>Gramegna</surname>
                                             </person-name>
                                             <person-note>Luxembourg</person-note>
                                        </person>
                                   </person-group>
                              </dir-entry>
                              <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                   <dir-entry-name>Secretary-General</dir-entry-name>
                                   <person-group>
                                        <person>
                                             <person-name>
                                                  <forename>Nicola</forename>
                                                  <surname>Giammarioli</surname>
                                             </person-name>
                                             <person-note>Italy</person-note>
                                        </person>
                                   </person-group>
                              </dir-entry>
                              <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                   <dir-entry-name>Chairperson of the Board of Governors and President of the Eurogroup</dir-entry-name>
                                   <person-group>
                                        <person>
                                             <person-name>
                                                  <forename>Paschal</forename>
                                                  <surname>Donohoe</surname>
                                             </person-name>
                                             <person-note>Ireland</person-note>
                                        </person>
                                   </person-group>
                              </dir-entry>
                         </dir-list>
                    </int-org-block>
               </int-org-entry>
          </int-org-entryref>
          <int-org-entryref id="SL1115960" int-org-entrydtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1115959" slsdocid="1101889" slsdocty="int-org-entry int-org-entrydtd">
               
               <int-org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.200305091616" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <int-org-entry-head>
                         <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                              <org-entry-name>European Economic and Social Committee</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>EESC</abbr>
                         </int-org-name-group>
                    </int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-block>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>99 rue Belliard, 1040 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 546-99-32</telephone>
                              <email>eescinfo@eesc.europa.eu</email>
                              <internet>www.eesc.europa.eu</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.345" usage="ewyb edio casee">The EESC was set up by the 1957 Rome Treaties. It is advisory and is consulted by the Council of the European Union or by the European Commission, particularly with regard to agriculture, free movement of workers, harmonization of laws and transport, as well as legislation adopted under the Euratom Treaty. In certain cases consultation of the EESC by the Commission or the Council is mandatory. In addition, the EESC has the power to deliver opinions on its own initiative.</p>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.346" usage="ewyb edio casee">The EESC has a tripartite structure with members belonging to one of three groupings: the Employers’ Group; the Workers’ Group; and the Civil Society Organizations’ Group, which includes representatives of academic, citizens’, consumer, agricultural, professional and social economy organizations. The 329 EESC members are nominated by national governments, and are appointed for a renewable term of five years by the unanimous vote of the Council. The existing mandate began in October 2020, and runs until September 2025. France, Germany and Italy have 24 members each; Poland and Spain 21; Romania, 15; Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Greece, Hungary, the Netherlands, Portugal and Sweden, 12; Croatia, Denmark, Finland, Ireland, Lithuania and Slovakia, nine; Latvia, Estonia and Slovenia, seven; Cyprus and Luxembourg, six; and Malta, five. The Committee is served by a permanent and independent General Secre­tariat, headed by the Secretary-General.</p>
                         <dir-list>
                              <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.347" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                                   <dir-entry-name>President</dir-entry-name>
                                   <person-group>
                                        <person>
                                             <person-name>
                                                  <forename>Oliver</forename>
                                                  <surname>Röpke</surname>
                                             </person-name>
                                             <person-note>Austria</person-note>
                                        </person>
                                   </person-group>
                              </dir-entry>
                              <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.349" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                                   <dir-entry-name>Secretary-General</dir-entry-name>
                                   <person-group>
                                        <person>
                                             <person-name>
                                                  <forename>Isabelle</forename>
                                                  <surname>Le Galo Flores</surname>
                                             </person-name>
                                             <person-note>Spain</person-note>
                                        </person>
                                   </person-group>
                              </dir-entry>
                         </dir-list>
                    </int-org-block>
               </int-org-entry>
          </int-org-entryref>
          <int-org-entryref id="SL1115966" int-org-entrydtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1115965" slsdocid="1101890" slsdocty="int-org-entry int-org-entrydtd">
               
               <int-org-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.200305091617" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <int-org-entry-head>
                         <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
                              <org-entry-name>Committee of the Regions </org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>CoR</abbr>
                         </int-org-name-group>
                    </int-org-entry-head>
                    <int-org-block>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Bãtiment Jacques Delors, 99-101 rue Belliard, 1040 Brussels</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 282-22-11</telephone>
                              <!--rc 18.01.2021 ditto-->
                              <!--GS 13.12.2016 Email not confirmed. They use contact form-->
                              <internet>www.cor.europa.eu</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.354" usage="ewyb edio casee">The Treaty on European Union provided for a committee to be established, with advisory status, comprising representatives of regional and local bodies throughout the EU. The first meeting of the CoR was held in March 1994. It may be consulted on EU proposals concerning economic and social cohesion, trans-European networks, public health, education and culture, and may issue an opinion on any issue with regional implications. The CoR meets in plenary session up to six times a year.</p>
                         <p>The entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty, in December 2009, empowered the CoR, on the basis of a simple majority vote, to challenge at the European Court of Justice any new EU legislation—relating to the policy areas where the Committee may be consulted—that is deemed to infringe the principle of `subsidiarity’, i.e. that decisions should be taken as closely as possible to the citizens.</p>
                         <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.355" usage="ewyb edio casee">The number of members of the CoR is currently 329. Members are appointed for a term of five years by the Council, acting unanimously on proposals from the respective member states. The Committee elects its principal officers from among its members. The President and Vice-President serve a 30-month term of office.</p>
                         <dir-list>
                              <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.356" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                                   <dir-entry-name>President</dir-entry-name>
                                   <person-group>
                                        <person>
                                             <person-name>
                                                  <forename>Vasco</forename>
                                                  <surname>Alves Cordeiro</surname>
                                             </person-name>
                                             <person-note>Portugal</person-note>
                                        </person>
                                   </person-group>
                              </dir-entry>
                              <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.357" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                                   <dir-entry-name>Secretary-General</dir-entry-name>
                                   <person-group>
                                        <person>
                                             <person-name>
                                                  <forename>Petr</forename>
                                                  <surname>Blížkovský</surname>
                                             </person-name>
                                             <person-note>Czech Republic</person-note>
                                        </person>
                                   </person-group>
                              </dir-entry>
                         </dir-list>
                    </int-org-block>
               </int-org-entry>
          </int-org-entryref>
          <int-org-sectref id="SL1115973" int-org-sectrefdtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="1115972" slsdocid="1101769" slsdocty="int-org-section int-org-sectrefdtd">
               
               <int-org-section id="WB02047.IO.TXT.434" id-root="int-org_eu" iso="" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                    <heading>Agencies</heading>
                    <org-list>
                         <org-list-head>Decentralized Agencies</org-list-head>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.371342" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>Agency for the Co-operation of Energy Regulators</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>ACER</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>1000 Ljubljana, Trg republike 3, Slovenia</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">(8) 2053400</telephone>
                                   <email>info@acer.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>www.acer.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p>Founded in 2011, ACER aims to facilitate cross-border energy trade, to co-ordinate the activities of national energy regulators and to help to prevent conflict between them, in order to encourage competition and to ensure fair prices for both consumers and businesses. The agency’s opening coincided with the entry into force of the EU’s third energy package on the internal market.</p>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.5437689745" />
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.389898" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Christian</forename>
                                                       <surname>Zinglersen</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Denmark</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.229457" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                              <!--rc 30.01.2020 cannot confirm fax-->
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>Body of European Regulators for Electronic Communications</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>BEREC</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Z. A. Meierovica Bulv. 14, 2nd Floor, Rīga 1050, Latvia</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">2957-8999</telephone>
                                   <email>berec@berec.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>berec.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.229567">Established by a regulation of the European Parliament in 2009, replacing the European Regulators Group.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.44876" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>László</forename>
                                                       <surname>Ignéczi</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Hungary</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.371" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>Community Plant Variety Office</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>CPVO</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>3 blvd du Maréchal Foch, POB 10121, 49101 Angers, France</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">2-41-25-64-00</telephone>
                                   <email>cpvo@cpvo.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>www.cpvo.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.54376897">Began operations in 1995, with responsibility for granting intellectual property rights for plant varieties. Supervised by an Administrative Council, and managed by a President, appointed by the Council. A Board of Appeal considers appeals against certain technical decisions taken by the CPVO. Publishes an annual report listing valid EU plant variety rights, their owners and their expiry dates.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.389898564" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>President</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Francesco</forename>
                                                       <surname>Mattina</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Sweden</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.377" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Agency for Safety and Health at Work</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>EU-OSHA</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Edif. Miribilla, Calle Santiago de Compostela 12, 48003 Bilbao, Spain</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">944358400</telephone>
                                   <fax>944358401</fax>
                                   <email>information@osha.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>osha.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.7667676556">Began operations in 1996. Aims to encourage improvements in the working environment, and to make available all necessary technical, scientific and economic information for use in the field of health and safety at work. The agency supports a network of Focal Points in the member states of the EU, in the member states of the European Free Trade Association and in the candidate states of the EU.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.379" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Executive Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>William</forename>
                                                       <surname>Cockburn</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.2025" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Aviation Safety Agency</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>EASA</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Postfach 101253, 50452 Cologne, Germany</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Konrad-Adenauer-Ufer 3, 50668 Cologne, Germany</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">(221) 8999000</telephone>
                                   <email>info@easa.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>www.easa.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.2025.1">Established by a regulation of the European Parliament in July 2002; the mission of the agency is to establish and maintain a high, uniform level of civil aviation safety and environmental protection in Europe. The agency commenced full operations in 2003, and moved to its permanent seat in Cologne, Germany, in late 2004.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.2409" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Executive Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Florian</forename>
                                                       <surname>Guillermet</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>France</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB020220151212.IO.TXT" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Banking Authority</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>EBA</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Europlaza, 20 ave André Prothin, 92927 Paris, France</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <email>info@eba.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>www.eba.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB020220151234.IO.TXT">Established in 2011 in London, UK (it relocated to France in 2019, following the UK’s decision to leave the EU) as part of the European System of Financial Supervision (ESFS), replacing the Committee of European Banking Supervisors.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Chairperson</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>José Manuel</forename>
                                                       <surname>Campa</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Spain</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB0204735.IO.TXT.379" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Executive Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>François-Louis</forename>
                                                       <surname>Michaud</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>France</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.5643545676" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Border and Coast Guard Agency</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>FRONTEX</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Plac Europejski 6, 00-844 Warsaw, Poland</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">(22) 2059500</telephone>
                                   <fax>(22) 2059501</fax>
                                   <email>frontex@frontex.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>frontex.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.1375" usage="ewyb edio">Established by a regulation of the European Parliament in 2004, as the European Agency for the Management of Operational Co-operation at the External Borders, with the aim of creating an integrated border management system; it began operations in May 2005. In December 2015 the European Commission presented proposals for the establishment of a European Border and Coast Guard, building on FRONTEX, which were formally adopted in September 2016. The European Border and Coast Guard Agency was officially launched in October.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Executive Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Hans</forename>
                                                       <surname>Leijtens</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Netherlands</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.386" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF">
                              <!--rc 06.02.2024 cannot confirm email-->
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>Cedefop</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Service Post Europe 123, 570 01 Thermi, Greece</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">(231) 0490111</telephone>
                                   <fax>(231) 0490049</fax>
                                   <email>info@cedefop.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>www.cedefop.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.387">Established in 1975, Cedefop assists policymakers and other officials in member states and partner orgs in issues relating to vocational training policies, and assists the European Commission in the development of these policies.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.388" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Executive Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Jürgen</forename>
                                                       <surname>Siebel</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Germany</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.479564" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF">
                              <!--rc 01.02.2022 cannot confirm tel and fax-->
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>ECDC</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Gustav III blvd 40, 169 73 Solna, Sweden</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">(8) 586-01000</telephone>
                                   <email>ecdc.info@ecdc.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>www.ecdc.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.38576">Founded in 2005 to strengthen European defences against infectious diseases. It works with national health protection bodies to develop disease surveillance and early warning systems across Europe.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.5353" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <title>Dr</title>
                                                       <forename>Andrea</forename>
                                                       <surname>Ammon</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Germany</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.12042145821" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Chemicals Agency</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>ECHA</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Telakkakatu 6, Helsinki, Finland; POB 400, 00150 Helsinki, Finland</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">(9) 686180</telephone>
                                   <fax>(9) 6861-8210</fax>
                                   <email>info@echa.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>echa.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="IO.EU-AGENCIES.1">The ECHA was established by regulations of the European Parliament and the European Council in 2006, and became fully operational in June 2008. Its objective is to supervise and undertake the technical, scientific and administrative aspects of the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals throughout the EU and in Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. It also supports and runs a national help desk, and disseminates information on chemicals to the public.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.90000000" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Executive Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <title>Dr</title>
                                                       <forename>Sharon</forename>
                                                       <surname>McGuinness</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Ireland</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <!--NB EUROPEAN CYBERSECURITY INDUSTRIAL, TECHNOLOGY AND RESEARCH COMPETENCE CENTRE - ECCC IN THE PROCESS OF BEING SET UP, TO BE LOCATED IN BUCHAREST, ROMANIA. CJH FEB 2024 - KEEP EYE OUT!-->
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.4857645" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Defence Agency</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>EDA</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>17-23 rue des Drapiers, 1050 Brussels, Belgium</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 504-28-00</telephone>
                                   <email>info@eda.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>www.eda.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.3542">Founded in 2004 and became operational in 2005; aims to help member states to improve their defence capabilities for crisis management under the European Security and Defence Policy. The Steering Board is composed of the ministers responsible for defence of all member states.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.90909" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Head of the Agency and Chairperson of the Steering Board</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Josep</forename>
                                                       <surname>Borrell Fontelles</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Spain</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.94654" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Chief Executive</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Jiří</forename>
                                                       <surname>Šedivý</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Czech Republic</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.2028" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Environment Agency</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>EEA</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>6 Kongens Nytorv, 1050 Copenhagen K, Denmark</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">33-36-71-00</telephone>
                                   <fax>33-36-71-99</fax>
                                   <email>eea@eea.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>www.eea.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.390">Became operational in 1994, having been approved in 1990, to gather and supply information to assist the drafting and implementation of EU policy on environmental protection and improvement. Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland and Türkiye are also members. The agency publishes frequent reports on the state of the environment and on environmental trends.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.393" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Executive Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Leena</forename>
                                                       <surname>Ylä-Mononen</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Finland</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.YXY.371.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Fisheries Control Agency</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>EFCA</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Edif. Odriozola, Avda García Barbón 4, 36201 Vigo, Spain </verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">986120610</telephone>
                                   <email>efca@efca.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>www.efca.europa.eu/en</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="IO.EU-AGENCIES.2">Established in 2005 to improve compliance with regulations under the 2002 reform of the Common Fisheries Policy. The EFCA aims to ensure the effectiveness of enforcement by sharing EU and national methods of fisheries’ control, monitoring resources and co-ordinating activities.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Executive Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <title>Dr</title>
                                                       <forename>Susan</forename>
                                                       <surname>Steele</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Ireland</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.2030" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Food Safety Authority</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>EFSA</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>
                  Via Carlo Magno 1
                  <sc>a</sc>
                  , 43126 Parma, Italy
                </verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">(521) 036111</telephone>
                                   <email>press@efsa.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>www.efsa.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.2029">Began operations in 2003; its primary responsibility is to provide independent scientific advice on all matters with a direct or indirect impact on food safety. The EFSA will carry out assessments of risks to the food chain and scientific assessment on any matter that may have a direct or indirect effect on the safety of the food supply, including matters relating to animal health, animal welfare and plant health. It also gives scientific advice on genetically modified organisms, and on nutrition in relation to EU law.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.2033" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Executive Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <title>Dr</title>
                                                       <forename>Bernhard</forename>
                                                       <surname>Url</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Austria</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.394" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>EUROFOUND</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Wyattville Rd, Loughlinstown, Dublin, D18 KP65, Ireland</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">(1) 2043100</telephone>
                                   <internet>www.eurofound.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.395">Established in 1975, the Foundation aims to provide information and advice on European living and working conditions, industrial relations, and the management of change to employers, policymakers, govts and trade unions, by means of comparative data, research and analysis. In 2001 the Foundation established the European Monitoring Centre on Change to help to disseminate information and ideas on the management and anticipation of change in industry and enterprise.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.397" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Executive Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Ivailo</forename>
                                                       <surname>Kalfin</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Bulgaria</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Institute for Gender Equality</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>EIGE</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Gedimino pr. 16, 01103 Vilnius, Lithuania</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">(5) 215-7400</telephone>
                                   <email>eige.sec@eige.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>eige.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="IO.EU-AGENCIES.3">The EIGE was established in 2007, initially in Brussels, Belgium, to help EU member states and institutions to promote gender equality, to combat gender discrimination and to disseminate information on gender issues. The institute collects and interprets relevant data, to develop methodologies and tools to help to integrate gender across all policy areas, to facilitate discussion and the adoption of best practices, and to raise awareness of gender issues. The institute comprises a management board, which is the decision-making body, together with a consultative experts’ forum.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Carlien</forename>
                                                       <surname>Scheele</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Netherlands</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>EIOPA</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Westhafenpl. 1, 60327 Frankfurt am Main, Germany</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">(69) 95111920</telephone>
                                   <email>info@eiopa.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>eiopa.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="IO.EU-AGENCIES.4">Established in 2011 to replace the Committee of European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Supervisors. It aims to support the stability of the financial system, the transparency of markets and financial products as well as the protection of policyholders, pension scheme members and beneficiaries.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Executive Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Fausto</forename>
                                                       <surname>Parente</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Italy</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.30012020" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Labour Authority</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>ELA</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Landerova 12, 811 09 Bratislava 1, Slovakia</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">(800) 67891011</telephone>
                                   <email>info@ela.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>ela.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="IO.EU-AGENCIES.6">Commenced operations in October 2019 (and relocated permanently from a temporary location in Brussels to Bratislava, Slovakia in 2021), with the aim of facilitating co-operation and mediating disputes between member countries, co-ordinating joint inspections, and providing analyses and risk assessments in relation to labour mobility across national borders. </p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Executive Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Cosmin</forename>
                                                       <surname>Boiangiu</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Romania</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.2031" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Maritime Safety Agency</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>EMSA</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Cais do Sodré, 1249-206 Lisbon, Portugal</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">(21) 1209200</telephone>
                                   <email>information@emsa.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>www.emsa.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.2032">Established by a regulation of the European Parliament in 2002; its primary responsibility is to provide technical and scientific advice to the Commission in the field of maritime safety and prevention of pollution by ships and, from 2012, oil and gas rigs. In December 2003 it was decided that the permanent seat of the agency would be in Lisbon, Portugal. Norway and Iceland are also members of EMSA.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.2034" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Executive Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Maja</forename>
                                                       <surname>Markovčić Kostelac</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Croatia</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.2024" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Medicines Agency</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>EMA</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Domenico Scarlattilaan 6, 1083 Amsterdam, Netherlands</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">(88) 7816000</telephone>
                                   <email>press@ema.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>www.ema.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.381">Established in 1995 for the evaluation, authorization and supervision of medi­cinal products for human and veterinary use. It relocated from the UK to Amsterdam, Netherlands, in 2019.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.382" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Executive Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Emer</forename>
                                                       <surname>Cooke</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Ireland</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.398" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>EMCDDA</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Praça Europa 1, Cais do Sodré, 1249-289 Lisbon, Portugal</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">(21) 1210200</telephone>
                                   <fax>(21) 1210380</fax>
                                   <email>info@emcdda.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>www.emcdda.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.399">Founded in 1993 and became fully operational at the end of 1995, with the aim of providing member states with objective, reliable and comparable information on drugs and drug addiction in order to assist in combating the problem. The Centre co-operates with other European and international organizations and non-EU countries.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.401" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Alexis</forename>
                                                       <surname>Goosdeel</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Belgium</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB0246047.IO.TXT.398" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Public Prosecutor’s Office</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>EPPO</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>11 ave John F. Kennedy, 1855 Luxembourg, Luxembourg</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <internet>www.eppo.europa.eu/en</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB0246047.IO.TXT.399">Founded in 2017 by a regulation of the Council and became fully operational in May 2021; it is an independent public prosecution office of the EU, operating in all participating EU states (currently 22), and is responsible for investigating, prosecuting and bringing to judgment crimes against the financial interests of the EU. Comprises one European Chief Prosecutor and 22 European Prosecutors (one for each participating member state), who together constitute the College of the EPPO.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB0246047.IO.TXT.401" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Chief Prosecutor</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Laura</forename>
                                                       <surname>Codruţa Kōvesi</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Romania</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB020220151540.IO.TXT" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Securities and Markets Authority</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>ESMA</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>201-203 rue de Bercy, CS 80910, 75589 Paris, Cedex 12, France</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">1-58-36-43-21</telephone>
                                   <email>info@esma.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>www.esma.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="IO.EU-AGENCIES.7">Founded in 2011, replacing the Committee of European Securities Regulators as the regulator and supervisor of the EU’s financial markets.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB0202151702.IO.TXT" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Executive Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Natasha</forename>
                                                       <surname>Cazenave</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>France</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.406" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Training Foundation</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>ETF</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Villa Gualino, Viale Settimio Severo 65, 10133 Turin, Italy</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">(011) 630-22-82</telephone>
                                   <fax>(011) 630-22-00</fax>
                                   <email>info@etf.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>www.etf.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.407">Established in 1990 and became oper­ational in 1994, the Foundation provides policy advice to the European Commission and to the EU’s partner countries, to support vocational education and training reform. The ETF works in the countries surrounding the EU, which are involved either in the European Neighbourhood Partnership Instrument, or in the enlargement process under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance. The ETF also works in a number of other Central Asian countries.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.408" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Pilvi</forename>
                                                       <surname>Torsti</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Finland</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB0202201511313.IO.TXT" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Union Agency for Asylum</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>EUAA</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>MTC Block, Winemakers Wharf, Grand Harbour, Valletta, MRS 1917, Malta</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">22487500</telephone>
                                   <email>info@euaa.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>euaa.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB0202201512001.IO.TXT">Launched in 2011 to act as a centre of expertise on asylum. Contributes to the development of the Common European Asylum System by facilitating, co-ordinating and strengthening practical co-operation among member states on asylum.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB0202201512316IO.TXT.379" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Executive Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Nina</forename>
                                                       <surname>Gregori</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Slovenia</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.828288" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Union Agency for Criminal Justice Cooperation</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>EUROJUST</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>POB 16183, 2500 The Hague, Netherlands</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">(70) 4125000</telephone>
                                   <email>info@eurojust.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>eurojust.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.0687956677">Established in 2002 as the European Union Judicial Cooperation Unit, to improve co-operation and co-ordination between member states in the investigation and prosecution of serious cross-border and organized crime. Its new legal basis as the EU Agency for Criminal Justice Cooperation became operational from late 2019, and from June 2022 it was given the legal possibility to collect and share evidence on war crimes. The EUROJUST College is composed of one member (a senior prosecutor or judge) nominated by each member state. </p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.373" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>President of the College</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Ladislav</forename>
                                                       <surname>Hamran</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Slovakia</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                                   <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Administrative Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Vincent</forename>
                                                       <surname>Jamin</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.3560" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Union Agency for Cybersecurity</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>ENISA</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Ethnikis Antistaseos 72, 152 31 Chalandri 152, Greece</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <email>info@enisa.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>www.enisa.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.1849">Established by a regulation of the European Parliament in 2004; commenced operations in 2005. The primary responsibilities of the agency are to promote closer European co-ordination on the security of communications networks and information systems and to provide assistance in the application of EU measures in this field.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Executive Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Juhan</forename>
                                                       <surname>Lepassaar</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Estonia</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.402" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>FRA</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Schwarzenbergpl. 11, 1040 Vienna, Austria</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">(1) 580300</telephone>
                                   <email>information@fra.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>fra.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.403">Founded in 2007, replacing the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia (EUMC). The agency aims to provide assistance to EU member states on fundamental rights matters during the application of EU law. The FRA continues the work of the EUMC on racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism and related intolerance, and utilizes its experience of data collection methods and co-operation with governments and international organizations. In addition, the FRA places significant emphasis on increasing public awareness of rights issues and on co-operation with civil society.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.405" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <title>Prof.</title>
                                                       <forename>Michael</forename>
                                                       <surname>O’Flaherty</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Ireland</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.84736809" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Co-operation</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>EUROPOL</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>POB 90850, 2509 The Hague, Netherlands; Eisenhowerlaan 73, 2517 The Hague, Netherlands</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">(70) 3025000</telephone>
                                   <email>info@europol.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>www.europol.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.51232435">Established in 1992 and known under its current name since May 2017, EUROPOL is a law enforcement organization that aims to help EU member states to combat organized crime, by handling criminal intelligence throughout Europe and promoting co-operation between the law enforcement bodies of member countries; became a full EU agency, with an enhanced mandate for combating international crime, in 2010. In January 2016 a European Counter Terrorism Centre was established as a department within EUROPOL. In May the European Parliament approved new regulations to facilitate the establishment of specialized units within EUROPOL and thereby enable it to respond more rapidly to terrorist threats and other incidents of cross-border and organized crime.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Executive Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Catherine</forename>
                                                       <surname>De Bolle</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Belgium</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.76872726" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Training</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>CEPOL</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>1066 Budapest, Ó utca 27, Hungary</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">(1) 803-8030</telephone>
                                   <fax>(1) 803-8032</fax>
                                   <email>info@cepol.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>www.cepol.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="IO.EU-AGENCIES.8">Founded as the European Police College in 2005 to help to create a network of senior police officers throughout Europe, to encourage cross-border co-operation in combating crime, and to improve public security and law and order through the organization of training activities and research. Present name adopted in July 2016.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Executive Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Montserrat</forename>
                                                       <surname>Marín López</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Spain</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.3769785697" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Union Agency for the Operational Management of Large-scale IT Systems in the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>eu-LISA</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>EU House, Rävala pst 4, 10143 Tallinn, Estonia</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <email>info@eulisa.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>eulisa.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.13754546" usage="ewyb edio">The agency, which began operations in late 2012, was established to provide operational management of large-scale IT systems in the area of home affairs. It has operational management responsibility for the Schengen Information System (SIS II), which entered into operation in April 2013.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Executive Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Agnès</forename>
                                                       <surname>Diallo</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>France</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.229457656" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Union Agency for Railways</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>ERA</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>120 rue Marc Lefrancq, 59300 Valenciennes, France</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">3-27-09-65-00</telephone>
                                   <fax>3-27-33-40-65</fax>
                                   <email>directorate-info@era.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>www.era.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.22956735463">The agency’s predecessor, the European Railway Agency, was established by a regulation of the European Parliament in April 2004, its primary responsibility being to reinforce the safety and interoperability of railways in the EU. With the entry into force in 2016 of the so-called technical pillar of the EU’s fourth railway package, the European Union Agency for Railways was founded.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.44876342525" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Executive Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Josef</forename>
                                                       <surname>Doppelbauer</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Austria</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.120421" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Union Agency for the Space Programme</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>EUSPA</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Janovského 438/2, 17000 Prague 7, Czech Republic</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">234766000</telephone>
                                   <email>com@euspa.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>www.euspa.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p>Replaced the European Global Navigation Satellite Systems Authority (GSA) in 2021. The GSA was established in 2004 to oversee all public interests relating to European Global Navigation Satellite System programmes, and in 2007 officially took over the tasks previously assigned to the Galileo Joint Undertaking. The EUSPA is responsible for the Galileo and the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS) satellite navigation programmes, including their management, operation, maintenance and evolution, and for the development of future systems; it also has responsibility for the Space Surveillance Tracking Front Desk operations service.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.90000010" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Executive Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Rodrigo</forename>
                                                       <surname>da Costa</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Portugal</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.987656" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Union Institute for Security Studies</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>EUISS</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>100 ave de Suffren, 75015 Paris, France</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">1-56-89-19-30</telephone>
                                   <email>info@iss.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>www.iss.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.5806495684">Established by a Council Joint Action in 2001, and inaugurated in January 2002. The Institute aims to help to implement and develop the EU’s Common Foreign and Security Policy, and carries out political analysis and forecasting.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Steven</forename>
                                                       <surname>Everts</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Sweden</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.409" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Union Intellectual Property Office</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>EUIPO</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Avda de Europa 4, 03008 Alicante, Spain</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">965139100</telephone>
                                   <email>information@euipo.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>euipo.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.410">Established in 1993 as the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market, to promote and control trade marks and designs throughout the EU. Present name adopted in 2016.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.413" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Executive Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Christian</forename>
                                                       <surname>Archambeau</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Belgium</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.2435465754" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>European Union Satellite Centre</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>EU SATCEN</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Apdo de Correos 511, 28850 Torréjon de Ardoz, Madrid, Spain</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">916786000</telephone>
                                   <fax>916786006</fax>
                                   <email>info@satcen.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>www.eusc.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.78876655664">Established by a Council Joint Action in 2001 and operational from 1 January 2002. The Centre is dedicated to providing material derived from the analysis of satellite imagery in support of the Common Foreign and Security Policy.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Sorin Dumitru</forename>
                                                       <surname>Ducaru</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Romania</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.14818822161" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>Single Resolution Board</org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>SRB</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Treurenberg 22, 1049 Brussels, Belgium</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 490-30-00</telephone>
                                   <internet>srb.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.14818832701">Established in 2015 as an independent agency of the EU to serve as the resolution authority for banks within the Banking Union that are unable to fulfil their credit obligations.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.14818832702" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Chairperson</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Dominique</forename>
                                                       <surname>Laboureix</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>France</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.414" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union </org-entry-name>
                                   <abbr>CdT</abbr>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>
                  12
                  <sc>e</sc>
                   rue Guillaume Kroll, 1882 Luxembourg
                </verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">4217-11-1</telephone>
                                   <email>cdt@cdt.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>cdt.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="WB02047.IO.TXT.415">Established in 1994 to meet the translation needs of other decentralized EU agencies.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.416" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Ildikó</forename>
                                                       <surname>Horváth</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Hungary</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                    </org-list>
                    <org-list>
                         <org-list-head>EURATOM Agencies and Bodies</org-list-head>
                         <org-entry-expanded sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>Euratom Supply Agency</org-entry-name>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Complexe Euroforum, 1 rue Henri Schnadt, 2530 Luxembourg</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">4301-34815</telephone>
                                   <email>esa-aae@ec.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>ec.europa.eu/euratom/index.html</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="IO.EU-AGENCIES.9">The Euratom Supply Agency commenced operations in 1960, having been established by the Euratom Treaty to ensure the regular and equitable supply of nuclear energy throughout EU member states.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Director-General</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Agnieszka</forename>
                                                       <surname>Kazmierczak</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>Poland</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                         <org-entry-expanded id="WB02047.IO.TXT.12044421" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-EXPANDREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                              <org-entry-head>
                                   <org-entry-name>Fusion for Energy—F4E—European Joint Undertaking for ITER and the Development of Fusion Energy</org-entry-name>
                              </org-entry-head>
                              <address-block>
                                   <address type="POSTAL">
                                        <verbatim-address>Calle Josep Pla 2, Torres Diagonal Litoral, Edif. B3, 08019 Barcelona, Spain</verbatim-address>
                                   </address>
                                   <telephone alsofax="N">933201800</telephone>
                                   <fax>934897537</fax>
                                   <email>info@f4e.europa.eu</email>
                                   <internet>fusionforenergy.europa.eu</internet>
                              </address-block>
                              <p id="IO.EU-AGENCIES.10">Established in 2007, as a Joint Undertaking under the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) Treaty, by a decision of the Council. Its current members comprise the EU member states and Euratom.</p>
                              <dir-list>
                                   <dir-entry id="WB02047.IO.TXT.9000000000342" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                                        <dir-entry-name>Director</dir-entry-name>
                                        <person-group>
                                             <person>
                                                  <person-name>
                                                       <forename>Marc</forename>
                                                       <surname>Lachaise</surname>
                                                  </person-name>
                                                  <person-note>France</person-note>
                                             </person>
                                        </person-group>
                                   </dir-entry>
                              </dir-list>
                         </org-entry-expanded>
                    </org-list>
                    <p>Executive Agencies are established for a predetermined length of time. There are currently six such agencies in operation: the Education, Audiovisual and Culture Executive Agency; the European Climate, Infrastructure and Environment Executive Agency; the Euro­pean Research Council Executive Agency; the European Innovation Council and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Executive Agency; the European Health and Digital Executive Agency; and the European Research Executive Agency.</p>
               </int-org-section>
          </int-org-sectref>
     </int-org-entry>
     </int-org-entry>