<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="WCC.IO" id-root="wcc.io" iso="wcc.io" original-filename="wb02071.txt" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>World Council of Churches</org-entry-name>
               <abbr>WCC</abbr>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">MAJOR NON-UN ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE">World Council of Churches</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>150 route de Ferney, CP 2100, 1211 Geneva 2, Swit­zerland</verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <telephone alsofax="N">227916111</telephone>
               <fax>227910361</fax>
               <email>infowcc@wcc-coe.org</email>
               <internet>www.oikoumene.org</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p id="WCC.IO.3">The Council was founded in 1948 as an inter-church organization to promote co-operation and unity.</p>
          <int-org-section id="WCC.IO.22" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Members</heading>
               <p id="WCC.IO.4">There are 352 member Churches in 120 countries. Chief denominations include: African Instituted; Anglican; Assyrian; Baptist; Evangelical; Lutheran; Mennonite; Methodist; Moravian; Old Catholic; Orthodox; Pentecostal; Presbyterian; Reformed; and Friends (Quakers). The Roman Catholic Church is not a member but sends official observers to meetings.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="WCC.IO.23" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <heading-note>April 2024</heading-note>
          <int-org-section id="WCC.IO.24" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Assembly</heading>
               <p id="WCC.IO.5">The governing body of the World Council, consisting of delegates of the member Churches, meets every eight years. It elects the Presi­dents of the Council, who serve as members of the Central Committee. The 11th Assembly was held in Karlsruhe, Germany, in late August-early September 2022.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="WCC.IO.25" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Central Committee</heading>
               <p id="WCC.IO.7">Appointed by the Assembly to carry out its policies and decisions, the Committee consists of 150 members chosen from Assembly delegates. It usually meets every two years (2023: in June). </p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="WCC.IO.26" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Executive Committee</heading>
               <p id="WCC.IO.11">The Committee consists of the Presidents, the Officers and 20 members chosen by the Central Committee from its membership to prepare its agenda, expedite its decisions and supervise the work of the Council between meetings of the Central Committee. It meets biannually.</p>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="WCC.IO.9" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Moderator</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Dr</title>
                                        <forename>Heinrich</forename>
                                        <surname>Bedford-Strohm</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Evangelical Lutheran Church, Bavaria, Germany</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="WCC.IO.100" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Consultative Bodies</heading>
               <p>
        Various bodies, including advisory groups, commissions and reference groups, comprising members from WCC governing bodies and member churches, advise the General Secretariat on policy direction, implementation and evaluation. The main bodies are the Commissions on Faith and Order (plenary and standing bodies), on Education and Ecumenical Formation, of the Churches on International Affairs, on Health and Healing, on World Mission and Evangelism (the CWME), on Young People in the Ecumenical Movement
        
        , and on Climate Change and Sustainable Development (newly established in 2023). There is also a Joint Working Group between the WCC and the Roman Catholic Church and a Joint Consultative Group with the Pentecostal Churches.
      </p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="WCC.IO.27" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>General Secretariat</heading>
               <p id="WCC.IO.12">The General Secretariat implements the policies laid down by the WCC and co-ordinates the Council’s work. It is also responsible for an Ecumenical Institute, at Bossey, Switzerland, which provides training in ecumenical leadership.</p>
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="WCC.IO.13" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>General Secretary</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Rev. Prof. Dr</title>
                                        <forename>Jerry</forename>
                                        <surname>Pillay</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>South Africa</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
               <p>The WCC maintains an Ecumenical Office at the United Nations (EOUN), at the UN’s New York, USA headquarters.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="WCC.IO.28" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Activities</heading>
          <p id="WCC.IO.14">The WCC’s activities are focused on the following objectives: Strengthen the fellowship and deepen solidarity and communion; Witness together as transforming disciples; Encourage spirituality, reflection, and formation; and Foster innovative and inspiring communication. These were incorporated into the Council’s Strategic Plan 2023-30, which was formulated following its 11th Assembly in 2022 and approved by the Central Committee in June 2023. The WCC’s work programmes aim to strengthen relationships with member churches and with ecumenical partners, as well as to promote other so-called `transversal issues’ of spiritual life, youth engagement, inter-religious dialogue and co-operation, overcoming racism, and the development of a just community of women and men.</p>
          <int-org-section id="WCC.IO.30" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Unity, Mission and Ecumenical Relations</heading>
               <p>The WCC, through the Commissions on Faith and Order and on World Mission and Evangelism, aims to promote a `visible unity' among member churches and to encourage them to address potentially divisive issues and develop mutually acceptable positions. It also works to enhance partnerships with other regional and international ecumenical organizations, and other relevant bodies, to support the ecumenical movement. The Council’s Pilgrimage of Justice and Peace initiative promotes worldwide Christian fellowship and advocates to bring people on the margins of society into the centre of communities.</p>
               <p>
        In September 2022 the 11th WCC Assembly, held on the theme `Christ’s Love Moves the World to Reconciliation and Unity’, issued a collective Unity Statement. This noted the destructive impacts of,
        <i> inter alia,</i>
         the ongoing ecological crisis, systemic poverty, war, racism, gender-based violence, and other human rights violations, and cited `Christlike love’ as the inspiration of true unity (`ecumenism of the heart’).
      </p>
               <p>The WCC supported the development in 2007 of the Global Christian Forum (fourth Forum: April 2024, in Accra, Ghana). A Conference on World Mission and Evangelism is organized once a decade under the auspices of the CWME (March 2018: in Arusha, Tanzania). The WCC also supported the inaugural World Conference on Religions, Creeds and Value Systems: Joining Forces to Enhance Equal Citizenship Rights, which was held in June 2018, in Geneva.</p>
               <p usage="edio">The Council produces materials to share among churches, such as information on worship and spiritual life practices, and to co-ordinate and promote the annual Week of Prayer for Christian Unity.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="WCC.IO.31" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>
        Public Witness and 
        <i>Diakonia</i>
               </heading>
               <p>
        Through all its work, and its dedicated team for Public Witness and 
        <i>Diakonia</i>
         (i.e `the care that Christians offer to their fellow humanity’), the WCC aims to be an active participant in promoting human rights, peace and reconciliation. It may follow up its concerns relating to violence, war, human rights, economic injustice, poverty and exclusion at an international level, while at regional and local level it aims to accompany churches in critical situations in their efforts to defend human rights and dignity, overcome impunity, achieve accountability and build just and peaceful societies.
      </p>
               <p>The Council advocates for full nuclear disarmament, and for the elimination of autonomous weapons systems, landmines and light weapons.</p>
               <p>The WCC’s Mission from the Margins programme promotes reflection and action relating to the economic, political, ecclesial and cultural dimensions of population movements in the globalized world. Consideration is given to climate- and development-induced displacement and migration, to human trafficking, and to multicultural issues. In January 2021 a Council initiative aimed at overcoming racism was launched. In accordance with a Statement on the Human Rights of Stateless People adopted in November 2013 by the 10th WCC Assembly, the Council advocates for stateless peoples’ rights, for example to civil registration, health care and education.</p>
               <p>The Health and Healing programme facilitates networking, undertakes advocacy activities, and promotes dialogue among church health networks and those of civil society. It also leads the implementation of a Global Ecumenical Health Strategy that was finalized in 2019. The Council’s Ecumenical HIV and AIDS Initiatives and Advocacy (WCC-EHAIA) programme informs and assists churches in their efforts to support communities affected by HIV/AIDS, with a particular focus on Africa, Jamaica, the Philippines and Ukraine.</p>
               <p>
        The WCC’s Ecumenical Indigenous Peoples Network promotes learning from the teachings of Indigenous communities to guide a way of life that doesn’t overburden the Earth’s ecological balance. In March 2019 the WCC launched a Roadmap for Congregations, Communities and Churches for an Economy of Life and Ecological Justice, with the following five focus areas: living in accordance with the covenant with God and creation; renewable energy and climate protection; just and sustainable consumption; economies of life; and networking. The WCC helped to organize the seventh international conference on Ecological Theology and Environmental Ethics in October 2023. In February 2022—responding to the release of a new 
        <xr id="IO-UNEP.101" pageref="N">Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change</xr>
         report, which observed that climate change would endanger access to food and water security, livelihoods and health, and would tip increasing numbers of people into extreme poverty—the WCC’s acting General Secretary stated that fighting against climate change equated to fighting for justice, and called on industrialized countries to provide sufficient climate change support funding (in the form of grants, not loans) to poorer countries. Through its Sustainability and Economy of Life Advocacy programme the Council promotes sustainable communities. The Council hosts the secretariat of the Ecumenical Water Network, which promotes community-based water resources management initiatives.
      </p>
               <p usage="edio">Since 2016 the WCC, World Communion of Reformed Churches and partners have supported the Ecumenical School on Governance, Economics and Management for an Economy of Life (GEM School) training initiative.</p>
               <p>Since 2015 the WCC has hosted the Ecumenical Advocacy Alliance, which promotes human dignity and justice through collective discussion and action, with a particular focus in 2024 on food security, sustainable agriculture, and HIV/AIDS.</p>
               <p>An Ecumenical Disability Advocates Network was established by the Council in 1998.</p>
               <p>In September 2022 the 11th WCC Assembly denounced the Russian Federation’s invasion of Ukraine, and rejected the misuse of religious authority and language to justify aggression. In October a high-level WCC team visited the Russian capital and met the Russian Orthodox Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia. High-level missions to Ukraine were undertaken in August and in May 2023.</p>
               <p>
        In November 2022 the inaugural meeting took place of a Jerusalem Liaison Office Advisory Committee, which was to provide guidance and support on Palestine and Israel. In October 2023, following the devastating escalation of the Hamas-Israel conflict, the WCC called for an end to all indiscriminate targeting of civilians, the release of all Israeli hostages, an immediate humanitarian ceasefire to enable the distribution of food, water and medical supplies, and the protection of sanctuaries of refuge. A statement released by the Executive Committee in the following month demanded an immediate ceasefire and the opening of humanitarian corridors in Palestine and Israel. In January 2024, as public hearings were initiated at the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.527">International Court of Justice</xr>
         in respect of a case brought by South Africa against Israel alleging violations of the 1948 Genocide Convention, the WCC’s General Secretary urged the international community to respect and implement rulings made by the Court. In the following month he visited Palestine and Israel.
      </p>
               <p>Under the WCC’s Ecumenical Accompaniment Programme in Palestine and Israel (inaugurated in August 2002) around 25-30 Ecumenical Accompaniers, at any one time, normally form a neutral protective presence to support vulnerable groups in the Occupied Territories and to accompany the Israeli peace movement; the Accompaniers’ physical presence was temporarily withdrawn, for safety reasons, in October 2023, although they continued to provide support online. A cohort of six Accompaniers returned to Palestine and Israel in February 2024.</p>
               <p> An International Day of Prayer for Peace is held each year on 21 September.</p>
               <!--Ecumenical Solidarity Fund -->
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="WCC.IO.32" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Ecumenical Formation</heading>
               <p>The WCC promotes Ecumenical theological education (referred to as ETE) and supports the development of networks of ecumenical theological institutions. The WCC’s Ecumenical Institute, in Bossey, Switzerland, offers academic courses, research opportunities and residential programmes, including one for the promotion of inter-faith dialogue. The Council organizes seminars and workshops to promote good practices in ecumenical formation and leadership training. It also promotes best practices for interreligious dialogue and co-operation. It aims to strengthen theological education through accreditation standards, exchange programmes and modifying curricula. The Council administers a sponsorship programme to provide opportunities for ecumenical learning in different cultures. In September 2011 the WCC, with Globethics.net, launched the Global Digital Library on Theology and Ecumenism, a multilingual theological resource providing access to research materials in theology and related disciplines.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="WCC.IO.33" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Finance</heading>
          <p id="WCC.IO.20">The main contributors to the WCC's budget are the churches and their agencies, with funds for certain projects contributed by other organizations. The WCC’s 2023 budget amounted to 21.7m. Swiss francs.</p>
          <!--2024 budget approved xi.23.-->
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="WCC.IO.34" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Publications</heading>
          <publ-list>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Annual Review</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Current Dialogue</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">annually</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>The Ecumenical Review</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">quarterly</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>International Review of Mission</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">2 a year</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Report of the General Secretary</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
          </publ-list>
          <p>Other periodicals, books, reports.</p>
     </int-org-section>
</int-org-entry>