<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-entry id="IO-UN.1080816764" id-root="io-un.1080816764" iso="io-un.1080816764" print-style="PGWIDTH" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <int-org-entry-head>
          <int-org-name-group type="MAIN">
               <org-entry-name>World Tourism Organization</org-entry-name>
               <abbr>UN Tourism</abbr>
          </int-org-name-group>
     </int-org-entry-head>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">International Organizations</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">United Nations</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb">United Nations (Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations)</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="edio">World Tourism Organization</alt-heading>
     <int-org-block>
          <address-block>
               <address type="POSTAL">
                    <verbatim-address>Calle Poeta Joan Maragall 42, 28020 Madrid, Spain</verbatim-address>
               </address>
               <telephone alsofax="N">(91) 5678100</telephone>
               <email>info@unwto.org</email>
               <internet>unwto.org</internet>
          </address-block>
          <p id="IO-WTOURO.1000"> The World Tourism Organization was formally established in 1975 following the transformation of the International Union of Official Travel Organisations into an intergovernmental body, in accordance with a resolution of the UN General Assembly approved in 1969. It became a specialized agency of the UN in December 2003 (then using the acronym UNWTO). In January 2024 the organization rebranded as UN Tourism. It aims to promote and develop sustainable tourism, in particular in support of inclusive socioeconomic growth in developing countries.</p>
          <int-org-section id="IO-WTOURO.1001" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Members</heading>
               <p id="IO-WTOURO.1003">UN Tourism has 160 member states, six territories as associate members, and more than 500 affiliate members.</p>
               <!--ii.24 permanent observer: Holy See; special observer: Palestine.-->
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-block>
     <int-org-section id="IO-WTOURO.1004" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Organization</heading>
          <heading-note>May 2024</heading-note>
          <int-org-section id="IO-WTOURO.1005" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>General Assembly</heading>
               <p id="IO-WTOURO.1006">The General Assembly, convened every two years, approves the agency’s budget and programme of work, considers issues of concern for the tourism sector, and elects the Secretary-General. It consists of representatives of all full and associate members; affiliate members and representatives of other international organizations participate as observers. The 25th ordinary meeting was hosted by Uzbekistan, in Samarkand, in October 2023. The 26th was to be hosted by Saudi Arabia, in 2025.</p>
               <p>In April 2022 the first extraordinary session of the General Assembly voted to suspend the membership rights of the Russian Federation with immediate effect, in view of that country’s military invasion of Ukraine. (Russia pre-empted the vote by announcing its withdrawal from the organization, to take effect after one year.)</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-WTOURO.1007" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Executive Council</heading>
               <p id="IO-WTOURO.1008">The Council meets twice a year. It comprises 35 members, 34 of which are elected by the General Assembly. Spain (as the host of the headquarters the organization) is a permanent member. The following specialized committees are subsidiary organs of the Council and advise on management and programme content: Programme and Budget; Matters Related to Affiliate Membership; Statistics; Tourism and Competitiveness; Tourism Online Education; and Tourism and Sustainability. There is also a Task Force on Redesigning Tourism for the Future.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-WTOURO.1009" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Regional Commissions</heading>
               <p id="IO-WTOURO.1010">There are six regional commissions, comprising all members and associate members from each region, which meet at least once a year to determine UN Tourism's priorities and future activities in the region. The commissions cover Africa, the Americas, East Asia and the Pacific, South Asia, Europe, and the Middle East.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-WTOURO.1113" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Secretariat</heading>
               <p id="IO-WTOURO.1114">The Secretary-General is supported by a Deputy Secretary-General and by two Executive Directors, one of whom acts as UN Tourism’s Special Representative to the UN in Geneva, Switzerland. The Secretariat, based at UN Tourism’s global headquarters in Madrid, comprises departments of Institutional Relations and Resource Mobilization, Sustainable Development of Tourism, Tourism Market Intelligence and Competitiveness, Affiliate Members, Communications, and for Africa, the Americas, Asia and the Pacific, Europe, and the Middle East. A UN Tourism Liaison Office in Geneva, hosted by the International Trade Centre, was inaugurated in January 2017.</p>
               <!--ii.24 apparently no divided dept for Asia-->
               <dir-list>
                    <dir-entry id="IO-WTOURO.1115" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-ENTRYREF">
                         <dir-entry-name>Secretary-General</dir-entry-name>
                         <person-group>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Zurab</forename>
                                        <surname>Pololikashvili</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Georgia</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </person-group>
                    </dir-entry>
               </dir-list>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-WTOURO.1116" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Affiliate Members</heading>
               <p id="IO-WTOURO.1117">UN Tourism extends membership to operational representatives of the tourism industry and other related sectors, for example transport companies, educational institutions, insurance companies, and publishing groups. Affiliate members are represented on a Plenary organ, and on a Board of the Affiliate Members—which comprises 23 members, of whom three are appointed by the organization’s Secretary-General, and which acts as an advisory body to the Secretary-General. In 2024 affiliate member working groups were active in the following thematic areas: accessible tourism; air connectivity with related brand elements; destinations at stake; quality in tourism; scientific tourism; Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) support; technology and tourism; and youth tourism.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="UNWTO.IO.OFFICES.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Regional and Thematic Offices</heading>
               <p>A Nura, Japan-based Regional Support Office for Asia and the Pacific was established in 1995, and in May 2021 a Regional Office for the Middle East, with an additional focus on tourism for development and tourism education, was inaugurated in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. In October 2023 the organization’s 25th General Assembly endorsed the Secretary-General’s vision to establish a wider network of regional and thematic offices, each with an operational specialization. A new Thematic Office for Tourism on the Silk Road was opened in Samarkand (Uzbekistan) at the end of that month. In 2024 plans were underway to establish a Regional Office for the Americas, in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, with a focus on investment, and a Regional Office for Africa, in Marrakesh, Morocco, specializing in innovation.</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-WTOURO.1119" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Activities</heading>
          <p>UN Tourism promotes the development of responsible, sustainable and universally accessible tourism within the broad context of contributing to economic development, environmental sustainability, international prosperity, and peace and respect for human rights. It offers tourism leadership support, and aims to advance tourism knowledge and policies globally.</p>
          <p>UN Tourism sponsors World Tourism Day, held each year on 27 September. This was to be hosted in 2024 by Georgia, on the theme `Tourism and Peace’. The second annual Global Tourism Resilience Day was observed on 17 February 2024.</p>
          <int-org-section id="UNWTO.IO.COVID.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Tourism’s Post-Pandemic Recovery</heading>
               <p>The onset in 2020 of the unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic temporarily devastated the global tourism sector, causing international tourist arrivals to fall by 73% in that year (to 400m., from 1,500m. in 2019), according to the UNWTO World Tourism Barometer. (The 2019 figure had represented a 10th consecutive annual increase.) The agency inaugurated a Global Tourism Crisis Committee in March 2020. In May a COVID-19 Tourism Recovery Technical Assistance Package was released; the importance for the sector of harmonizing, co-ordinating and also digitalizing risk reduction measures—such as testing, tracing, and managing the certification of vaccinations—was subsequently emphasized. At the end of 2021 the agency established a Task Force on Redesigning Tourism for the Future, co-chaired by Saudi Arabia and Spain. It was to report to the Executive Council with strategy proposals and recommendations on means of strengthening support for the sector. In October 2023 the General Assembly extended the Task Force’s mandate for a further two years. In January 2024 the UNWTO World Tourism Barometer estimated that international tourist arrivals had recovered during 2023 to 88% of pre-pandemic (i.e. 2019) levels, and that export revenues from international tourism had reached 95% of their value in 2019; it was forecast that both would recover fully during 2024 to pre-pandemic levels.</p>
               <!--~UNWTO World Tourism Barometer - name-->
          </int-org-section>
          <!--New Platform Tourism Services: so- called sharing economy iii.17 tourism-dependent SIDS-->
          <int-org-section id="UNWTO.IO.01" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Sustainable Development</heading>
               <p>
        UN Tourism supports member states to develop and promote their tourism sectors in accordance with sustainable environmental, sociocultural and economic principles that help to conserve natural heritage, respect the sociocultural authenticity of host communities, and ensure socioeconomic benefits to all stakeholders. It emphasizes that sustainable tourism development requires the informed participation of all relevant stakeholders. UN Tourism advocates harnessing the potential of tourism to contribute to the advancement of the UN’s 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UNDP.001">2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development</xr>
         and SDGs. A World Charter on Sustainable Tourism, first adopted in April 1995, was updated to incorporate the SDGs in October 2017. A Tourism4SDGs online platform has been developed. In December 2019 the agency and its Affiliate Members Working Group on SDGs Support initiated a major survey addressing the incorporation of the SDGs into tourism strategies across the world. It supported the inaugural UN General Assembly High-Level Debate on Sustainable Tourism, which was convened in May 2022, in New York, USA.
      </p>
               <p>
        UN Tourism has formulated methodologies and guidelines to underpin the responsible development of ecotourism, with the aim of ensuring that the integrity of protected areas is enhanced rather than undermined by tourism. A collaboration between UN Tourism, the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XK.IO.TXT.89">World Travel and Tourism Council</xr>
         and the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XK.SHA.1">Sustainable Hospitality Alliance</xr>
         is focused on halting and reversing biodiversity loss in the framework of a `nature positive vision’ for the sector. UN Tourism supports low carbon development in the tourism sector. A joint UNWTO-
        <xr pageref="N" ref="ICFTU.IO.99">International Transport Workers Federation</xr>
         report on 
        <publ-name>Transport-related CO2 Emissions of the Tourism Sector</publ-name>
         that was issued in December 2019 focused on the decarbonization of transport in line with the targets of the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change. Through a Hotel Energy Solutions framework, and provision of an HES e-toolkit, UN Tourism supports tourism accommodations to use renewable and energy efficient technologies and practices.
      </p>
               <p>
        UN Tourism leads a One Planet Sustainable Tourism Programme, which in 2024 had the following three principal areas of intervention: Accelerating climate action in tourism; Transforming food value chains in tourism; and Building a circular economy of plastics. Under a Global Tourism Plastics Initiative that was launched in the context of the Programme in January 2020, tourism businesses and destinations were to formulate, by 2025, a set of actionable commitments, such as the elimination of unnecessary plastic items and packaging, and of single-use plastics; increasing the recycling and composting rates for plastics; and reporting annually on all relevant progress made. In May 2019 the agency issued a 
        <publ-name>Baseline Report on the Integration of Sustainable Consumption and Production Patterns into Tourism Policies</publ-name>
        .
      </p>
               <p>UN Tourism’s International Network of Sustainable Tourism Observatories (INSTO) initiative, established in 2004 (as the Global Observatory on Sustainable Tourism programme and subsequently renamed), supports the monitoring and implementation of sustainable tourism practices, and aims to establish a worldwide network of local observatories. By February 2024 INSTO had 44 participating observatories. UN Tourism also actively promotes voluntary initiatives for sustainability including labelling schemes, certification systems and awards. It designates Ambassadors for Sustainable Tourism. The development of a new Croatia-based UN Tourism research centre for sustainable tourism was underway in 2024.</p>
               <p>
        UN Tourism supports the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="OTHERORG.TOURISM.IO.01">World Indigenous Tourism Alliance</xr>
        , which helps to develop and implement strategies aimed at advancing tourism that promotes the values and knowledge of indigenous peoples. The agency has released a series of Recommendations on Sustainable Development of Indigenous Tourism.
      </p>
               <!--Tour Operators Initiative for Sustainable Tourism Devt-->
               <p>The agency helped to organize the inaugural Conference on Sustainable Development in Islands, in Réunion, in September 2013, and a second conference in the series, in Nassau, in February 2014. The meetings adopted, respectively, the Réunion Island Declaration on Sustainable Tourism in Islands, and the Nassau Declaration on Tourism as a Key Sector for Development in Island States. Prior to the onset of the COVID-19 emergency tourism was reported to represent more than 30% of total exports in the majority of small island states, and as much as 90% in some. Many undiversified small island economies and labour markets were therefore left exceptionally vulnerable by the pandemic. In March 2021 the agency urged the international community to ensure access by small island states to COVID-19 vaccinations, to help restart their tourism activities.</p>
               <p>In September 2019 the 23rd General Assembly approved a 10-point UNWTO 2030 Agenda for Africa, to promote the growth of the continent’s tourism sector, as a catalyst for further sustainable economic and social development.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UNWTO.77" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Innovation, Education, Digital Transformation and Investments</heading>
               <p>
        UN Tourism promotes the use of new technologies and innovation to enhance sustainable growth of the tourism sector in national economies, and its potential to contribute to job growth and development. A UN Tourism Innovation Hubs Network is under development to promote collaboration and the sharing of knowledge and best practice among the leading tourism stakeholders. UN Tourism has co-sponsored a series of tourism startup competitions, tech adventures and challenges that promote innovative business models focused on the 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-WTOURO.1124">development of tourism products</xr>
        .
      </p>
               <p>
        UN Tourism is committed to supporting education and training within the tourism industry and to developing a network of specialized research and training institutes. It has issued guidelines on education in tourism. The UN Tourism Academy serves as the organization’s focus of activities to support the development of tourism human capital. Specialized training products and services are offered, notably the TedQual certification, the Quest certification for destination management organizations, and the ExecutiveEducation Initiatives programme for tourism professionals. Self-paced online courses are offered on, 
        <i>inter alia,</i>
         fundamentals of tourism, sustainable destination management, and negotiations in tourism. From late 2024, with Lucerne University of Applied Sciences and Arts (Switzerland), UN Tourism was to offer a Bachelor of Science Degree in International Sustainable Tourism. The first meeting of an online Education Committee was held in December 2020, with a focus on advancing tourism skills, and on facilitating opportunities to access professional careers in tourism. In May 2020 the agency entered into an enhanced collaboration with the technology company Google in order to promote online skills training and digital learning.
      </p>
               <p>During 2020 the agency and a working group of the Group of 20 industrialized and emerging market nations developed the Al-Ula Framework for Inclusive Community Development through Tourism, focusing on education, innovation and technology, and investment as means of improving livelihoods through tourism and promoting the sustainable recovery of the sector, while meanwhile also safeguarding the environment.</p>
               <p>A Digital Futures programme that was initiated by the agency in May 2022 aimed to scale up the innovative use of digital technologies by small and medium-sized businesses in the tourism sector.</p>
               <p>In November 2023 the agency issued a brief on the development of digital nomad visas (DNVs)—which noted that nearly one-half of destinations worldwide offered DNVs with durations of 12 months or more, and addressed related issues such as minimum income requirements, taxation, insurance, accommodation and criminal record background checks.</p>
               <p>
        UN Tourism has issued a series of guidelines on investment in tourism and regularly releases country-specific 
        <publ-name>Tourism Doing Business</publ-name>
         investment reports. It has also co-authored a series of reports on greenfield tourism investment trends (i.e. the initiation of brand new cross-border investment operations). In October it released a new Investment Framework for Tourism, with a focus on sustainability, education and innovation; joint UN Tourism-
        <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.1275">UN Conference on Trade and Development</xr>
         Guiding Principles for Tourism Investment in Sustainable Tourism were to be developed to support the implementation of the Framework.
      </p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UNWTO.11" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Data and Statistics</heading>
               <p>
        UN Tourism produces market intelligence reports and analysis, and assists governments and tourist professionals to identify, analyse and forecast tourism trends and to assess the relative performance of each country’s tourism industry. UN Tourism has formulated international standards for tourism measurement and reporting, and compiles comprehensive tourism statistics and forecasts. &#160;Every three months the UNWTO World Tourism Barometer, which includes the UNWTO Confidence Index, 
        <!--check names-->
        monitors and forecasts short-term tourism trends, provides data on international tourist arrivals, expenditure and receipts worldwide, and reports on the results of surveys undertaken by the organization’s permanent Global Panel of Tourism Experts. In March 2024 the UN Statistical Commission adopted a Statistical Framework for Measuring the Sustainability of Tourism (SF-MST), developed with UN Tourism support as the global reference standard for measuring the economic, environmental and social dimensions of tourism.
      </p>
               <p>
        A UN Tourism Data Dashboard that originated during the COVID-19 crisis comprised, as at February 2024, a UN Tourism Recovery Tracker (which compares changes since 2019 across a set of indicators, including seat capacity, air travel bookings, and hotel occupancy rates); a UN Tourism/
        <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XM.IO.TXT.16">International Air Transport Association</xr>
         Destination Tracker (providing updates on travel restrictions and health indicators); and also an International Tourism and COVID-19 Tracker. With the agency’s support a G20 Tourism and SDGs Dashboard was launched in September 2023.
      </p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-WTOURO.1124" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Product Development</heading>
               <p>UN Tourism supports governments and affiliated member organizations in their governance of destination management, including strategic planning and development, sharing of good practices, and co-ordination of destination stakeholders. Since 2007 an annual UN Tourism-World Travel Market (WTM) ministerial summit has been organized in London, United Kingdom (2023: in November).</p>
               <p>UN Tourism supports the development of `tourism products’ which offer specific appeal to potential visitors.</p>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Cultural Tourism</heading>
                    <p>
          The agency co-hosted four world conferences during 2015-19 focused on combining tourism and culture (including heritage sites, art forms, traditions, pilgrimages and festivals) to generate employment, alleviate poverty, and protect cultural and natural heritage, within the framework of 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UNDP.001">2030 Agenda</xr>
           and pursuit of the SDGs. It co-convened a second International Congress on World Civilizations and Historic Routes in November 2018, to pursue discussion of the benefits of promoting cultural tourism along historic corridors (for example, Silk Road tourism). In November 2022 it organized, in Lagos, Nigeria, a Global Conference on Linking Tourism, Culture and Creative Industries.
        </p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Gastronomic and Wine Tourism</heading>
                    <p>The seventh UNWTO World Forum on Gastronomy Tourism took place in Nara, Japan, in December 2022, and the seventh UNWTO Global Conference on Wine Tourism, with participation by policymakers and other experts, was held in November 2023, in Haro, La Rioja (Spain).</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Rural Tourism</heading>
                    <p>UN Tourism promotes rural tourism as a catalyst for local prosperity and wellbeing. The UN Tourism Best Tourism Villages (BTV) Network, launched in 2021, comprised 186 villages from 55 countries at February 2024: 129 villages recognized as outstanding examples of rural destinations by the BTV by UN Tourism initiative (of which the fourth annual edition was launched in January 2024), and 57 that were aiming for that standard and were participating in a BTV Upgrade Programme. BTVs are evaluated on the following criteria: cultural and natural assets; promotion and conservation of cultural resources; economic, social and environmental sustainability; tourism development and value chain integration; governance and prioritization of tourism; infrastructure and connectivity; and health, safety and security. In January 2024 UN Tourism launched TourismConnectsRural, a digital hub to support the BTV Network.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Shopping Tourism</heading>
                    <p>
          UN Tourism notes that shopping represents a principal focus of tourists’ expenditure in local economies. In May 2014 the agency issued a 
          <publ-name>Global Report on Shopping Tourism</publ-name>
          , offering guidelines and case studies for destinations aiming to develop this segment of the tourism sector. The agency’s inaugural pilot shopping tourism project, launched in November 2019, aimed to promote León, Guanajuato, Mexico (renowned for artisan leather products) as a major shopping destination, with a view to boosting local employment and economic growth. 
        </p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Sports Tourism</heading>
                    <p>A 2nd UNWTO World Sports Tourism Congress was organized in April 2023 in Zadar, Croatia (the first having taken place in November 2021, in Lloret de Mar, Spain). A further Congress was to be convened during 2025. A handbook comprising best practices and recommendations on sports tourism was under development by UN Tourism in 2024.</p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Urban Tourism</heading>
                    <p>
                         <publ-name>UNWTO Recommendations on Urban Tourism</publ-name>
           were issued in June 2020. Two volumes of a study titled 
          <publ-name>Overtourism?</publ-name>
           were issued in 2018-19, focused on the perspective of local residents in popular urban tourist destinations. An UNWTO Conference on City Breaks took place in October 2018, in Valladolid Spain. The eighth UNWTO Global Summit on Urban Tourism was convened in Nur-Sultan (now known as Astana), Kazakhstan, in October 2019, on the theme `Smart Cities, Smart Destinations’. The organization also organizes a regular Mayors Forum for Sustainable Urban Tourism.
        </p>
               </p-group>
               <p-group>
                    <heading>Other Tourism Products</heading>
                    <p>In March 2024 UN Tourism co-organized the 12th World Congress on Snow, Mountain and Wellness Tourism, in Andorra. Island tourism and youth tourism are also promoted.</p>
               </p-group>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-WTOURO.3340" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Ethics, Culture and Social Responsibility</heading>
               <p>The Global Code of Ethics for Tourism, adopted in 1999 by the agency’s General Assembly, focused on protecting the resources upon which tourism depends and on ensuring the equal distribution of the sector’s economic benefits. An independent World Committee on Tourism Ethics was established in 2003, under the agency’s auspices, to support the implementation of the Code; a permanent secretariat for the Committee was inaugurated in November 2008. In September 2019 the 24th General Assembly adopted a Framework Convention on Tourism Ethics; upon entry into force this was to replace the Code, upholding 10 Ethical Principles in Tourism that had been laid out in the latter.</p>
               <!--World Committee on Tourism Ethics: independent body, reports to the UNWTO General Assembly Global Tourism Forum-->
               <p>Essential quality tourism standards promoted by UN Tourism include hygiene and food safety, accessibility, product and pricing transparency and authenticity.</p>
               <p>
        UN Tourism has approved recommendations on accessible tourism. An International Conference on Accessible Tourism for All: Advancing accessibility for destinations, companies and people, that was convened in November 2023 jointly by the agency and the Government of San Marino, adopted an Action Agenda for the Future of Accessible Tourism, outlining a series of commitments aimed at improving accessibility by 2030. In February 2022 the agency published 
        <publ-name>Gender Mainstreaming Guidelines for the Public Sector in Tourism</publ-name>
         and a Gender-Inclusive Strategy for Tourism Businesses. A Gender Equality in Tourism Training course was also introduced in that year. The UN Tourism Centre Stage Programme promotes gender equality in tourism-related governmental institutions, businesses and civil society bodies.
      </p>
               <p>A set of Guidelines on Travel Advisories was endorsed in December 2005 by the General Assembly, aimed at providing travellers with regularly updated and accessible information on risks associated with destinations. In November 2021 the 24th General Assembly adopted an International Code for the Protection of Tourists, including minimum consumer protection standards.</p>
          </int-org-section>
          <int-org-section id="IO-UNWTO.222" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
               <heading>Technical Co-operation</heading>
               <p>UN Tourism undertakes technical co-operation missions or projects to support member countries to develop and formulate tourism strategies. The focus of these could cover, for example, the assessment of a potential tourism destination, capacity building of regional tourism administrations, the development of community-based tourism, or the establishment of hotel classification systems.</p>
               <p>UN Tourism has advocated for increased support for tourism in international aid flows, to maximize the sector’s contribution to socioeconomic development. In August 2017 the agency was added to the OECD’s list of international organizations to which national contributions are classed as official development assistance (i.e. funding aimed at advancing the economic and social situations of developing countries).</p>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-WTOURO.2000" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Finance</heading>
          <p id="IO-WTOURO.2001">The budget for the two-year period 2024-25 amounted to €31.7m.</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <int-org-section id="IO-WTOURO.1142" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF">
          <heading>Publications</heading>
          <publ-list>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Annual Report</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Compendium of Tourism Statistics</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>International Tourism Highlights</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">annually</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>Yearbook of Tourism Statistics</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>UN Tourism News</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">monthly</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>World Tourism Barometer</publ-name>
                    <content-note style="NORMAL">4 a year</content-note>
               </publ-entry>
               <publ-entry>
                    <publ-name>UNWTO Travel Restrictions Report</publ-name>
               </publ-entry>
          </publ-list>
          <p id="IO-WTOURO.1143">Other research or thematic reports, studies, guidelines and factsheets.</p>
     </int-org-section>
     <!--25.iv.24: 3,576 words-->
</int-org-entry>