<?xml version="1.0"?>
<intro-survey id="LV.IS" id-root="lv.is" iso="lv" original-filename="lvainsu.rtf" usage="ewyb"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <country-head>Latvia</country-head>
     <alt-heading usage="casee">Latvia</alt-heading>
     <is-section id="LV.IS.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
          <heading>Introductory Survey</heading>
          <is-section id="LV.IS.2" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Location, Climate, Language, Religion, Flag, Capital</heading>
               <p id="LV.IS.3">The Republic of Latvia is situated in north-eastern Europe, on the east coast of the Baltic Sea. The country is bounded by Estonia to the north and by Lithuania to the south and south-west. To the east it borders the Russian Federation and to the south-east Belarus. Owing to maritime factors, the climate is relatively temperate but changeable. Average temperatures in January range from −2.8°C (26.6°F) in the western coastal town of Liepāja to −6.6°C (20.1°F) in the inland town of Daugavpils. Mean temperatures for July range from 16.7°C (62.1°F) in Liepāja to 17.6°C (63.7°F) in Daugavpils. Average annual rainfall in Rīga is 617&#160;mm (24&#160;ins). The official language is Latvian. The major religion is Christianity: most ethnic Lat­vians are traditionally Lutherans or Latin-rite Catholics, whereas ethnic Russians are mainly adherents of the Russian Orthodox Church. The national flag (proportions 1 by 2) has a maroon background, with a narrow white horizontal stripe superimposed across the central part. The capital is Rīga (Riga).</p>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="LV.IS.4" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Contemporary Political History</heading>
               <is-section id="LV.IS.12646933441" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Historical Context</heading>
                    <p id="LV.IS.5">In November 1917 representatives of Latvian nationalist groups elected a provisional national council, which informed the Russian Government of its inten­tion to establish an inde­pendent state. On 18 November 1918 the Latvian National Council proclaimed the Republic of Latvia, with Jānis Čakste as President. Independence, under the Government of Kārlis Ulmanis, was achieved after the expulsion of the Bolsheviks with assistance from Germany. A Latvian-Soviet peace treaty was signed in August 1920. Latvia’s first Constitution was adopted in 1922. An electoral system based on proportional representation permitted many small parties to be represented in the Saeima (Parliament), although Ulmanis’s party, the Latvijas Zemnieku Savienība (LZS—Latvian Farmers’ Union), was dominant. Economic de­cline prompted a coup in May 1934, led by Ulmanis. Martial law was introduced, the Parliament was dissolved, and political parties were banned. A Government of National Unity assumed the legislative functions of the Parliament, and Ulmanis (hitherto the Prime Minister) also became President in 1936.</p>
                    <p id="LV.IS.6">The Treaty of Non-Aggression, signed by Germany and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) in August 1939, provided for the incorporation of Latvia into the Soviet `sphere of interests’. A `treaty of mutual aid’ with the USSR allowed the establishment of Soviet military bases in Latvia, and in June 1940 Soviet forces occupied the country. A puppet’ adminis­tration, under Augusts Kirhenšteins, was installed, and the election to Parliament of Soviet-approved candidates took place in July. The new legislature proclaimed the Latvian Soviet Socialist Republic, which was incorp­orated into the USSR as a constituent union republic in August. Following German occupation from July 1941 during the Second World War, Soviet Latvia was re-established in 1944-45 and the mass deportation of Latvians to Russia and Central Asia resumed. Independent political activities were pro­hibited, and the Latvijas Komunistiskā Partija (LKP—Communist Party of Latvia) exercised exclusive political power.</p>
                    <p id="LV.IS.9">In October 1988 opposition representatives established the Latvijas Tautas Fronte (LTF—Latvian Popular Front), which resolved to seek Latvian sovereignty within a renewed Soviet federation. In March 1989 LTF-supported candidates won 26 of the 34 contested seats representing Latvia in elections to the USSR’s Congress of People’s Deputies. On 28 July, following similar measures in Lithuania and Estonia, the Latvian Supreme Soviet (Supreme Council—Augstākā Padome—legislature) adopted a declaration of sovereignty. Meanwhile, there was growing support for full independence, as advocated by the Latvijas Nacionālās Neatkarības Kustība (LNNK—Latvian National Independence Movement), particularly among ethnic Latvians.</p>
                    <p id="LV.IS.12">The Latvian Supreme Soviet abolished the constitutional guarantees of the LKP’s political predominance in January 1990 and in the following month restored the state emblems of pre-1940 Latvia. At elections to the Latvian Supreme Soviet in March-April 1990, LTF-endorsed candidates won 131 of the 201 seats; the LKP and the anti-independence Interfront together won 59 seats. The LKP subsequently split into two parties: the majority of delegates elected Alfrēds Rubiks, an opponent of independence, as First Secretary.</p>
                    <p id="LV.IS.13">The new Latvian Supreme Council, convened in May 1990, elected Anatolijs Gorbunovs of the LKP as its Chairman (de facto president of the Republic). On 4 May the Supreme Council announced a transition towards full political and economic independence. Ivars Godmanis, the Deputy Chairman of the LTF, was elected Prime Minister. Meanwhile, a rival body to the Supreme Soviet, the Congress of Latvia, was elected in an unofficial poll, in which only citizens of the pre-1940 republic and their descendants had been entitled to vote. The LNNK-dominated Congress, convening at the end of April 1990, adopted resolutions on independence and demanded the withdrawal of Soviet troops, severely straining relations with the Soviet authorities. On 14 May the Soviet President, Mikhail Gorbachev, issued a decree annulling the Latvian declaration of inde­pendence. In early January 1991 OMON troops seized the Rīga Press House. A Committee of Public Salvation’, led by Rubiks, declared itself as a rival Government to the Godmanis administration on 20 January; five people died when OMON troops attacked the Ministry of the Interior in Rīga.</p>
                    <p id="LV.IS.15">Latvia refused to conduct the all-Union referendum on the future of the USSR on 17 March 1991. Instead, a referendum on Latvian independence took place on 3 March. Of those eligible to vote, 87.6% participated, of whom, according to official results, 73.7% supported independence. During the attempted overthrow by conservative communists of the Gorbachev administration in the Russian and Soviet capital, Moscow, in August, an emergency session of the Latvian Supreme Council was convened, and full independence proclaimed. After the coup collapsed, the Godmanis Government banned the LKP and detained Rubiks. (In July 1995 Rubiks was found guilty of involvement in the coup attempt. He was released in November 1997.) On 6 September 1991 the USSR State Council formally acknowledged Latvian independence; Latvia was admitted to the United Nations (UN) later that month. In late 1991 the Supreme Council adopted legislation guaranteeing the right of citizenship to all citizens of the pre-1940 republic and their descendants. Other residents of Latvia were to be required to apply for naturalization.</p>
               </is-section>
               <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Domestic Political Affairs</heading>
                    <p id="LV.IS.17">Around 90% of the electorate participated in legislative elections held in June 1993. (Around 27% of the adult population, mostly Slavs, were ineligible to participate.) Eight groups secured representation in the 100-seat Parliament. Latvijas Ceļš (LC—Latvian Way), a broadly based movement, emerged as the largest party, with 32% of the votes and 36 seats. Moderate nationalist parties obtained strong popular support, while socialist-orientated parties, including the successor to the LKP, the Latvijas Sociālistickā Partija (LSP—Latvian Socialist Party), failed to win representation.</p>
                    <p>The new Parliament voted to restore the 1922 Constitution and on 7 July 1993 elected Guntis Ulmanis of the revived LZS as President. He was inaugurated the following day, appointing Valdis Birkavs of LC as Prime Minister. The Cabinet of Ministers represented a coalition agreement between LC (the majority partner) and the LZS.</p>
                    <is-section id="LV.IS.13082389441" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Changes of Government</heading>
                         <p id="LV.IS.19">In July 1994 the LZS withdrew from the Government. A new Cabinet of Ministers, appointed in September, was dominated by LC members, including the Prime Minister, Māris Gailis; Birkavs became deputy premier and Minister of Foreign Affairs.</p>
                         <p id="LV.IS.22">A general election was held on 30 September-1 October 1995. LC’s representation was reduced to 17, while the largest number of seats (18) was won by the new, leftist Demokrātiskā Partija `Saimnieks’ (DPS—`The Master’ Democratic Party). The extreme nationalist Tautas Kustība `Latvijai’—Zīgerista Partija (People’s Movement for Latvia—Zigerists’ Party), won 16 seats. In December Parliament endorsed a Cabinet of Ministers led by an entrepreneur with no party affiliation, Andris Šķēle. The coalition Government comprised the DPS, LC, the Tēvzemei un Brīvībai (TB—For Fatherland and Freedom Union), the LNNK and the LZS. On 18 June 1996 Parliament re-elected Ulmanis for a second presidential term.</p>
                         <p id="LV.IS.24">In July 1997 Šķēle’s Government resigned. Ulmanis invited Guntars Krasts, hitherto Minister of the Economy, to form a government. In August Parliament approved a coalition administration, largely comprising the TB/LNNK (formed by the merger of the two parties), the DPS, LC and the LZS. In March 1998 Šķēle formed a new political party, later named the Tautas Partija (TP—People’s Party).</p>
                         <p id="LV.IS.26">
            In April 1998 the DPS withdrew from the ruling coalition. In June Parliament liberalized the procedures required to obtain citizenship, in accordance with recommendations by the 
            <xr pageref="Y" ref="OSCE.IO">Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE)</xr>
            . The amendments were narrowly approved by referendum on 3 October. At legislative elections held concurrently with the referendum, the TP won 24 seats, ahead of LC with 21 seats, the TB/LNNK with 17 seats, the Tautas Saskaņas Partija (TSP—National Concord Party), which sought further liberalization of citizenship requirements, with 16, the Latvijas Sociāldemokrātiskā Strādnieku Partija (Latvian Social Democratic Workers’ Party), with 10, and the Jaunā Partija (New Party), with eight. In November 1998 Parliament approved a minority coalition Government, led by Vilis Krištopans of LC.
          </p>
                         <p>On 17 June 1999 Vaira Vīķe-Freiberga, an independent, was elected President by Parliament, taking office on 8 July. Meanwhile, on 5 July Krištopans announced his Government’s resignation. After Vīķe-Freiberga invited Šķēle to form a government, he led a coalition administration comprising the TP, the TB/LNNK and LC. Later in July Parliament adopted legislation requiring all business and state-organized gatherings to be conducted in Latvian. Following international criticism, revised legislation was approved in December and took effect in September 2000. Meanwhile, Šķēle resigned as premier in April 2000, after LC withdrew from the governing coalition. Vīķe-Freiberga asked Andris Bērziņš, hitherto the Mayor of Rīga, to form a new government; Parliament approved an administration, principally comprising the TP, LC and the TB/LNNK, in May.</p>
                         <p>At legislative elections on 5 October 2002, Jaunais Laiks (JL—New Era), led by Einars Repše, a former Governor of the Bank of Latvia, obtained 26 seats, ahead of the pro-Russian electoral bloc Par Cilvēka Tiesībām Vienotā Latvijā (PCTVL—For Human Rights in a United Latvia), including the TSP and the LSP, with 25 seats, the TP, with 20 seats, the Zaļo un Zemnieku Savienība (ZZS—Greens’ and Farmers’ Union)—an alliance led by the LZS—with 12 seats, the Christian Democratic Latvijas Pirmā Partija (LPP—Latvian First Party), with 10 seats, and the TB/LNNK, with seven. On 7 November Parliament endorsed a Government led by Repše and comprising JL, the LPP, the ZZS and the TB/LNNK.</p>
                         <p>On 20 June 2003 Vīķe-Freiberga was re-elected unopposed to a second presidential term. Following the withdrawal of the LPP in early 2004, in February Repše’s administration resigned. Vīķe-Freiberga nominated Indulis Emsis of the ZZS as premier. Emsis secured the support of the ZZS, the LPP and the TP, and on 9 March Parliament approved a new coalition Government.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="LV.IS.12988915601" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>After Accession to the European Union</heading>
                         <p id="LV.IS.543356">
            Following Latvia’s accession to the 
            <xr pageref="Y" ref="WB02047.IO.TXT">European Union (EU)</xr>
             on 1 May 2004 (see 
            <i>Regional Relations</i>
            ), elections to the European Parliament were conducted on 13 June; the TB/LNNK won four of Latvia’s nine seats, while its ally JL won two, and PCTVL, the LPP and LC each won one seat. In October Parliament voted to reject the draft budget, precipitating the collapse of the ruling coalition. Vīķe-Freiberga nominated Aigars Kalvītis of the TP (which had led opposition to the budget) as premier. In December Parliament approved a Government comprising members of the TP, JL, the ZZS and the LPP.
          </p>
                         <p id="LV.IS.66">In July 2005 Jānis Jurkāns resigned as the TSP leader, after the party formed an alliance with the Jaunais Centrs (JC—New Centre) party, the Saskaņas Centrs (SC—Centre of Concord); the LSP joined SC in December. In December Repše resigned as Minister of Defence and from the leadership of JL. Linda Mūrniece succeeded him as Minister of Defence. In April 2006 JL accused the LPP of misusing its control of the interior ministry and withdrew its representatives from the Government. On 8 April Parliament approved a three-party minority Government.</p>
                         <p>At legislative elections on 7 October 2006 the TP won 23 seats, the ZZS alliance and JL each won 18 seats, SC won 17 seats, the LPP, allied with LC, won 10 seats, the TB/LNNK won eight seats, and PCTVL won six. The outgoing coalition of the TP, the ZZS and the LPP thus secured a narrow parliamentary majority. Parliament approved a new Government, also including the TB/LNNK, on 7 November.</p>
                         <p>On 31 May 2007 Parliament elected the ruling coalition’s candidate, physician Valdis Zatlers, as President; he was inaugurated on 8 July. In August the LPP merged with LC; former Deputy Prime Minister Ainārs Šlesers and Godmanis co-chaired the reconstituted LPP/LC. In October Artis Pabriks resigned as Minister of Foreign Affairs, in protest at the dismissal of the Minister of Regional Development and Local Government, Aleksejs Loskutovs. A parliamentary motion of no confidence was defeated. In early December Kalvītis tendered the resignation of his Government. Zatlers nominated Godmanis (who had hitherto held the interior portfolio) as premier. On 20 December Parliament approved a coalition Government, comprising the TP, the LPP/LC, the ZZS and the TB/LNNK. In April 2008 a new, centre-right party, the Pilsoniskā Savienība (PS—Civic Union), was established by former members of JL and the TB/LNNK.</p>
                         <p>In January 2009 around 10,000 people demonstrated in Rīga to demand early legislative elections; some 100 protesters were arrested in ensuing riots. Zatlers issued an ultimatum threatening to dissolve Parliament, unless it expedited certain political reforms. In February, after the TP and the ZZS threatened to withdraw from the governing coalition, Godmanis tendered his resignation.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>The Governments of Valdis Dombrovskis</heading>
                         <p>President Zatlers nominated Valdis Dombrovskis, a member of JL and a former Minister of Finance, as Prime Minister, and in March 2009 Parliament approved a new coalition Government, including JL, the TP, the ZZS, the TB/LNNK and the PS; Repše became Minister of Finance and Mūrniece Minister of the Interior. In April Parliament approved constitutional amendments to take effect following the next parliamentary elections, enabling voters to initiate a referendum on the dissolution of the legislature during the second and third years of its term.</p>
                         <p>On 6 June 2009, in elections to the European Parliament, the PS and SC each won two of the eight seats allocated to Latvia, while PCTVL, the LPP/LC, the TB/LNNK and JL each won one. On the same day elections were held to new local government bodies, at which SC performed strongly. In February 2010 the Saskaņa Sociāldemokrātiskā Partija (Saskaņa—Harmony Social Democratic Party) was formed by the merger of three parties, including the TSP and the JC. In March a conservative alliance, Vienotība (Unity), comprising JL, the PS and a smaller party, was established. In mid-March the TP withdrew from the governing coalition, and Dombrovskis henceforth led a minority Government.</p>
                         <p>At the legislative elections held on 2 October 2010, Vienotība secured 33 seats, while SC increased its support, receiving 29 seats. The ZZS obtained 22 seats; a coalition of the nationalist Visu Latvijai! (VL—All For Latvia) party and the TB/LNNK won eight seats, as did another conservative coalition, led by Ulmanis and comprising the TP and the LPP/LC. Dombrovskis formed a coalition Government comprising the Vienotība and the ZZS alliances.</p>
                         <p>In February 2011 Mūrniece resigned as Minister of the Interior. A corruption investigation was launched in May into the suspended Mayor of Ventspils, Aivars Lembergs, and against Šķēle and Šlesers. However, the Anti-Corruption Bureau was refused permission to search their residences, prompting accusations that Parliament was obstructing the course of justice. (In February 2021 Lembergs was found guilty by a Rīga court of corruption and sentenced to a five-year prison term, the confiscation of assets and a fine. In September 2023 an appeals court upheld the sentence but reduced the prison term to four years.)</p>
                         <p>In February 2011 Zatlers announced that a referendum on the dissolution of Parliament would be held. The referendum was conducted on 23 July, when 94.3% of voters supported the motion to dissolve Parliament. On 2 June Andris Bērziņš of the ZZS (unrelated to the former premier with the same name), a former business executive, was elected President by the legislature; he was inaugurated on 8 July. Legislative elections were conducted on 17 September. SC secured 28.4% of the votes cast, taking 31 seats. Zatler’s Reformu Partija (RP) won 20.8% of the votes and 22 seats. Vienotība (which had been reconstituted as a single party) received 18.8% of the votes and 20 seats. The Nacionālā Apvienība (NA—National Alliance—recently formed by the TB/LNNK and VL) and the ZZS took 14 and 13 seats, respectively. On 25 October a new coalition Government, led by Dombrovskis, was approved by Parliament.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Government Resignation</heading>
                         <p>In November 2013 over 50 people were killed when the roof of a supermarket in Rīga collapsed; a criminal investigation was announced. On 27 November Dombrovskis tendered the resignation of his Government. Bērziņš nominated the erstwhile Minister of Agriculture, Laimdota Straujuma of Vienotība, as premier on 6 January 2014; the appointment of a new coalition Government, comprising Vienotība, the RP, the ZZS and the NA, and led by Straujuma, was approved by Parliament on 22 January.</p>
                         <p>At elections to the European Parliament on 24 May 2014, Vienotība won four seats. The ZZS, the NA, Saskaņa and the Latvijas Krievu Savienībā (LKS—Latvian Russian Union—as the PCTVL had been renamed) each secured one seat. Only 30% of the electorate voted.</p>
                         <p>Legislative elections took place on 4 October 2014. Saskaņa, contesting the elections independently of the LSP (thereby marking the end of the SC alliance), and under the chairmanship of Nils Ušakovs (the Mayor of Rīga since 2009), secured 23.0% of the votes cast and 24 seats in Parliament. Vienotība, which had incorporated RP candidates under an electoral agreement, received 21.9% and 23 seats, the ZZS 19.5% and 21 seats, and the NA 16.6% and 17 seats. Two newly formed associations, the Latvijas Reģionu Apvienība (LRA—Latvian Association of Regions) and No Sirds Latvijai (For Latvia From the Heart), also obtained representation. Later that month Vienotība, the ZZS and the NA agreed to form a new coalition Government, under the continued premiership of Straujuma. The Government was approved by Parliament on 5 November 2014.</p>
                         <p>On 3 June 2015 the hitherto Minister of Defence, Raimonds Vējonis of the Latvijas Zaļā Partija (Latvian Green Party—part of the ZZS), was elected President after five rounds of voting in Parliament. He was inaugurated on 8 July. Straujuma announced her resignation as Prime Minister on 7 December, following conflict within the coalition administration. In January 2016 Vējonis nominated Māris Kučinskis, a member of the regionalist Liepājas Partija (Liepāja Party)—part of the ZZS—and a former minister, as Prime Minister. His Government was confirmed in office by Parliament in February. In May an LRA parliamentary deputy, Artuss Kaimiņš, formed a breakaway movement, known as KPV LV (Kam Pieder Valsts?—Who Owns the State?).</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Money Laundering Allegations</heading>
                         <p>In mid-February 2018 the US Treasury accused Latvia’s third largest bank, ABLV Bank, of money laundering, including the facilitation of transactions for parties reportedly connected to the nuclear programme of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (North Korea), in breach of international sanctions. The European Central Bank (ECB) ordered ABLV Bank to suspend all payments. On 17 February the Governor of the Bank of Latvia and Latvia’s representative at the ECB, Ilmārs Rimšēvičs, was detained, following allegations that he had solicited a bribe from a financial institution operating outside Latvia. He was released on bail two days later and rejected government demands for his resignation. Later in February the ECB announced the closure of ABLV Bank. In April Parliament adopted legislation intended to combat money laundering and terrorist financing by banning co-operation with offshore `shell’ companies and facilitating improved oversight of the financial services sector. In June Rimšēvičs was charged formally with accepting bribes. (In February 2019 the European Court of Justice—ECJ—annulled the Government’s decision to suspend Rimšēvičs. In July, however, he was additionally charged with attempted money laundering. Mārtiņš Kazāks was approved as Governor in December. Rimšēvičs was sentenced to a six-year prison term in December 2023.)</p>
                         <p>At parliamentary elections on 6 October 2018, Saskaņa took 19.8% of the votes cast and 23 seats; the populist KPV LV gained significant support, with 14.3% of the votes and 16 seats, the Jaunā Konservatīvā Partija (JKP—New Conservative Party) secured representation for the first time, with 13.6% and 16 seats, while the Attīstībai/Par! (Development/For!) alliance led by the recently formed Kustība Par! (Movement For!) obtained 12.0% and 13 seats, the NA 11.0% and 13 seats, the ZZS 9.9% and 11 seats, and the Jaunā Vienotība (JV—New Unity) electoral list 6.7% and eight seats. Voter turnout was 54.6%.</p>
                         <p>After JKP Chairman Jānis Bordāns failed to secure agreement on a new administration, on 7 January 2019 President Vējonis nominated former Minister of the Economy (Arturs) Krišjānis Kariņš of JV to form a government. On 23 January Parliament approved a coalition Government, led by Kariņš and comprising JV, Kustība Par!, the JKP, KPV LV and the NA; Bordāns became Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice, while Pabriks of Kustība Par! was appointed Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence. KPV LV representative Ralfs Nemiro became Minister of the Economy. In April Ušakovs was suspended as Mayor of Rīga, after an investigation into alleged corruption schemes involving the municipal public transportation company.</p>
                         <p>Elections to the European Parliament were held on 25 May 2019. Of the eight seats allocated to Latvia, JV, Saskaņa and the NA each won two, and Attīstībai/Par! and the LKS won one. Turn-out was recorded at 33.5%. The two Saskaņa seats were secured by Ušakovs and his former deputy, Andris Ameriks; Ušakovs consequently resigned his mayoral office on 29 May.</p>
                         <p>On 29 May 2019 Levits, a judge at the ECJ who was supported by the parties of the ruling coalition, was elected as President by Parliament, defeating two other candidates. He was inaugurated on 8 July.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="LV.IS.15857220141" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>The COVID-19 Crisis</heading>
                         <p>In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, in March 2020 the Government declared a state of emergency (subsequently extended to 9 June), and measures designed to contain the disease, including the prohibition of mass gatherings, were introduced. In April Jānis Vitenbergs was approved as the new KPV LV-nominated Minister of the Economy, replacing Nemiro. On 10 June Parliament approved a proposal by President Levits on administrative territorial reform, providing for the number of municipal units to be reduced to 42 (from 119) from 1 July 2021.</p>
                         <p>Following postponements resulting from the pandemic, early elections to Rīga City Council took place on 29 August 2020. A coalition of Attīstībai/Par! and Progresīvie (PRO—the Progressives) was first-placed, with 18 of the 60 seats (marking the first electoral victory by liberal parties in the capital since 1991), while Saskaņa (with 12 seats) and the GKR (five seats) lost support. A participation rate of 40.6% of the electorate was recorded. Following the formation of a broad-based ruling coalition in the City Council, the Attīstībai/Par! candidate, Mārtiņš Staķis, was elected Mayor of Rīga on 2 October. Later that month the Office of the Prosecutor-General requested that the European Parliament lift the immunity from prosecution accorded to Ušakov as a member, in order to permit criminal charges to be brought in relation to the discovery by anti-corruption officers of a concealed video recording device in his offices in 2019. (The European Parliament acceded to the request in November 2021.)</p>
                         <p>Following a resurgence in cases of COVID-19, the Government declared a second state of emergency, accompanied by tighter restrictions, with effect from 9 November 2020. Amid the continuing crisis, in early January 2021 Minister of Health Ilze Viņķele resigned, following criticism by Prime Minister Kariņš of her management of a nationwide vaccination plan; Parliament approved the appointment of Daniels Pavļuts, the leader of Kustība Par!, to succeed her. The state of emergency was lifted in early April, although various restrictions remained in force.</p>
                         <p>On 2 June 2021 Kariņš announced a government reorganization, in which the KPV LV representatives were removed; the remaining four parties in the ruling coalition, which no longer held a parliamentary majority, signed a new co-operation agreement. The decision followed tensions between Kariņš and KPV LV ministers and a number of prominent defections from the party. On the following day Parliament approved appointments to the vacant posts: Vitenbergs (who had left the KPV LV and joined the NA shortly before) returned as Minister of the Economy, Marija Golubeva of the AP became Minister of the Interior.</p>
                         <p>
            Elections were conducted in the restructured municipalities on 5 June 2021 (although elections were not held in Rīga and were cancelled in the Varakļāni and Rēzekne municipalities, after the Constitutional Court ruled against their merger, subsequently taking place on 11 September). 
            <!--https://static.lsm.lv/documents/1am.pd - https://eng.lsm.lv/article/politics/politics/in-depth-of-analysis-of-latvian-local-election-results-in-english.a409983/-->
            The LRA and ZZS regional alliances performed most strongly. A voter turnout of 34.0% (the lowest rate since the restoration of independence for Latvia) was recorded. The restructured territorial administration officially took effect in July.
          </p>
                         <p>A further three-month national state of emergency was declared with effect from October 2021, in response to the ongoing pandemic; it was lifted in March 2022, and nearly all restrictions were lifted by April.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Recent Developments: The Resignation of Prime Minister Kariņš</heading>
                         <p>Following Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, in March Rīga City Council decided in March to rename the street in the capital where the Russian embassy was located as `Ukrainian Independence Street’. The authorities permitted the commemoration of Victory Day on 9 May 2022, with flowers placed at a Soviet-era monument in Rīga. However, after flowers were removed the following day, a demonstration (at which some protesters expressed support for Russian forces in Ukraine) was dispersed by police. On 12 May NA informed Prime Minister Kariņš that it would leave the governing coalition, if Golubeva, whose department oversaw the policing of the event, remained Minister of the Interior. Golubeva resigned on 16 May and was subsequently replaced by Kristaps Eklons. The monument was demolished in August. In April 2023 Parliament approved legislation prohibiting public celebrations on 9 May.</p>
                         <p>Meanwhile, at parliamentary elections on 1 October 2022, the JV of incumbent Prime Minister Kariņš took 19.0% of the votes and 26 seats. The ZZS won 12.4% of the votes and 16 seats, the Apvienotais Saraksts (AS—United List, comprising several centrist, regional and environmentalist parties) secured 11.0% of the votes and 15 seats, the NA won 9.3% of the votes and 13 seats, while Stabilitātei! (For Stability!) won 6.8% of the votes and 11 seats. Saskaņa, which had secured the largest proportion of the votes in the three previous elections to the legislature, failed to reach the 5% threshold required to secure representation in Parliament; Konservatīvie (the Conservatives), as the JKP had been renamed, also lost all of its seats. Turnout was 59.4%. President Levits authorized Kariņš to form a new Government. Following protracted negotiations, the second Kariņš Government, comprising JV, the NA and the AS, took office in December, with the approval of 54 votes in the legislature. Notably, Kučinskis became Minister of the Interior. A new Ministry of Climate and Energy was established on 1 January 2023. In April Parliament approved legislation providing for the reintroduction of compulsory military service, with effect from 1 January 2024.</p>
                         <p>On 31 May 2023 longstanding Minister of Foreign Affairs Rinkēvičs was elected by Parliament as the country’s President, in a third round of voting in the legislature. He was inaugurated on 8 July, having resigned the foreign affairs portfolio the previous day; Kariņs assumed the position in an acting capacity. Early in the same month Staķis resigned as Mayor of Rīga, amid allegations of the misuse of public funds allocated to the city’s public transport system. He was succeeded by Vilnis Ķirsis.</p>
                         <p>In mid-June 2023 the Government survived a motion of no confidence brought by 15 parliamentarians from the LPV (which held nine seats in the legislature) and Stabilitātei!. Nevertheless, Kariņš formally tendered his resignation on 17 August, after the JV's coalition partners opted not to support his proposed reorganization of the cabinet, as well as certain policy proposals. The JV nominated Evika Siliņa, hitherto Minister of Welfare, as Prime Minister. On 15 September Parliament approved a new three-party coalition Government, led by Siliņa and comprising the JV, the centre-left, environmentalist party PRO and the more conservative ZZS. Kariņš became Minister of Foreign Affairs, Andris Sprūds of PRO was appointed as Minister of Defence, while Arvils Ašeradens retained his previous position as the JV Minister of Finance. In late March 2024 Kariņš announced his resignation as Minister of Foreign Affairs, amid ongoing controversy over revelations of the use of private aircraft by government delegations during his tenure as Prime Minister.</p>
                         <p>In January 2024 the European Parliament had opened an investigation into allegations made by an investigative journal that Tatjana Ždanoka, a Latvian Member of the European Parliament representing the pro-Russian LKS, had been co-operating with the Russian intelligence services. The State Security Service launched a criminal case in March against Ždanoka, who denied the claims.</p>
                    </is-section>
               </is-section>
               <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Foreign Affairs</heading>
                    <is-section id="LV.IS.12646934871" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Regional Relations</heading>
                         <p>Latvia has close relations with Estonia and Lithuania, and the three countries have established institutions to promote co-operation, including the interparliamentary Baltic Assembly and the Baltic Council of Ministers. In 1992 Latvia became a founder member of the Council of the Baltic Sea States. Agreement on the delimitation of the maritime border with Estonia was reached in 1996, and demarcation of the land border between the two countries was completed in 1997. In 2000 a protocol was signed on the re-demarcation of the land border with Lithuania. Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania, having agreed on the aim to reduce Russian dominance in the supply of energy, established a common Nordic-Baltic energy market in 2013, under the EU’s 2009 Baltic Energy Market Interconnection Plan; the project, which was designed to create an integrated European electricity market, was launched formally in February 2014, and is scheduled to be complete by February 2025. In January 2017 Prime Minister Kučinskis and the premiers of Estonia and Lithuania, meeting EU officials in the Estonian capital, Tallinn, signed a trilateral agreement on the development of the `Rail Baltica’, with EU funding, which was to connect the Baltic states and Central European railway networks. Construction of the Rail Baltica main line began in November 2019 and was originally scheduled for completion by 2026, but has been subject to delays.</p>
                         <p>
            In December 2002 Latvia and nine other countries were formally invited to join the EU in 2004. After the results of a national referendum held in September 2003 supported Latvian membership, the country acceded to the EU on 1 May 2004. Latvia became a full member of the 
            <xr pageref="Y" ref="NATO.IO">North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)</xr>
             in March of that year. On 1 January 2014 Latvia adopted the euro as its national currency.
          </p>
                         <p id="LV.IS.35">Latvia’s post-independence relations with the Russian Federation were initially troubled by the withdrawal of the 100,000 Russian (formerly Soviet) troops stationed in Latvia and the citizenship and linguistic rights of Latvia’s Russian-speaking population. In April 1994 agreements were concluded on the withdrawal of the remaining 10,000 Russian troops by August. Negotiations about the demarcation of the Latvian-Russian border and Latvia’s claim to 1,640 sq km of land transferred to Russia during the Soviet era commenced in 1996. Full agreement on a border treaty was reached in October 1997, although it remained unratified. In January 2007 Latvia agreed to remove a declaration from the draft treaty, which Russia had interpreted as making a territorial claim over the land that had formerly constituted part of Latvia. The treaty was signed by Prime Minister Kalvītis and his Russian counterpart in Moscow in March.</p>
                         <p>Russia’s annexation of the Crimean peninsula in March 2014 (see Ukraine) was followed by a crisis in Russia’s relations with the EU. The new Latvian Government established in October pledged to increase the combat readiness of the country’s armed forces in response to concerns about increased intimidatory tactics by Russia (after numerous occasions on which Russian warships had approached Latvian waters or Russian military aircraft neared Latvian airspace). Under its stated commitment to collective security among NATO member states (Operation Atlantic Resolve), the USA dispatched troops and military equipment to Latvia (and Estonia, Lithuania and Poland) in March 2015 to conduct expanded training exercises. NATO command centres were installed in Latvia and five other Eastern European states in mid-2015, as part of plans to establish an expanded rapid reaction force.</p>
                         <p>
                              <!--http://www.baltic-course.com/eng/legislation/?doc=137545-->
            On 8 February 2018 Parliament adopted legislation denouncing the death in custody of Russian anti-corruption lawyer Sergei Magnitskii in 2009. The Government announced later that month that 49 Russians named in the case were prohibited from entering Latvia. In response, in June the Russian Government banned around 30 Latvians, including several parliamentary deputies, from entering Russia. Changes to education law (which had been adopted in March) provided for the phased withdrawal of Russian-language secondary education in ethnic minority schools by September 2021; the Russian Government denounced the changes as discriminatory.
          </p>
                         <p>Meanwhile, following a disputed presidential election in Belarus in early August 2020 and the ensuing repression of opposition protests in the country, at the end of that month Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia imposed travel bans on President Alyaksandr Lukashenka and 29 other Belarusian officials (prior to EU agreement on collective sanctions). The three countries expanded the travel bans to a further 98 Belarusian officials in September. During mid-2021 the number of migrants attempting to enter the territory of Latvia, Lithuania and Poland from Belarus increased significantly. Their Governments accused the Belarusian authorities of `hybrid warfare’ activities, after evidence emerged that Belarusian border officials were assisting and encouraging migrants (principally from Iraq) to cross illicitly into the EU, in reprisal for support of the Belarusian opposition and sanctions against Lukashenka’s regime. In August the Latvian Government declared a three-month state of emergency in four administrative areas bordering Belarus and introduced new border control measures—the state of emergency was subsequently extended repeatedly.</p>
                         <p>
            In accordance with the decision adopted at a NATO summit meeting in Warsaw, Poland, in July 2016 to deploy multinational battalions to the Baltic states and Poland, a Canadian-led battalion was installed in Latvia during the first half of 2017. In January 2017 Latvia signed an agreement with the USA formalizing the deployment of US forces in the country and the conduct of joint exercises and training. In February US troops were deployed in Latvia (and other Eastern European states) on a rotational basis, under Operation Atlantic Resolve, and work began to dismantle the last Soviet-era nuclear missile base (disused since 1982), near the town of Gulbene in north-eastern Latvia. In February 2019 the defence ministers of Estonia, Latvia and Denmark signed a memorandum of understanding on the establishment of the headquarters for NATO’s Multinational Division North (part of the Alliance’s command structure) at Ādaži, near Rīga, which was inaugurated in March. 
            <!--https://www.nato.int/nato_static_fl2014/assets/pdf/2022/2/pdf/2202-factsheet_efp_en.pdf-->
            At November 2023 the NATO battlegroup at Ādaži numbered around 2,453 personnel. 
          </p>
                         <p>During a visit by NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg to Rīga in November 2021, amid concerns about the mass deployment of Russian troops at Ukraine’s borders, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence Pabriks pressed for a permanent US military presence in Latvia. Following a continuing escalation in tensions, in a joint statement issued in January 2022 the defence ministers of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania announced that they were to provide US-manufactured weaponry, including anti-aircraft missiles, to Ukraine, with US approval. Around 400 US troops were deployed to Latvia to participate in international military training exercises (involving a total of some 2,800 personnel), which commenced on 18 February. The Latvian Government condemned Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine on 24 February 2022. Shortly afterwards an additional contingent of about 800 US troops previously based in Italy began to arrive in Latvia. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken visited Latvia in March, when he assured government leaders of NATO support for the Baltic states against Russian aggression.</p>
                         <p>At the end of February 2022 Parliament adopted amendments to the National Security Law, allowing Latvian citizens to fight in support of Ukrainian forces as volunteers. In April the legislatures in Latvia and Estonia voted to recognize the killing of civilians by Russian forces in occupied parts of Ukraine as genocide, and in August Parliament approved a resolution declaring Russia to be a `state sponsor of terrorism’. In September Latvia declared a state of emergency in three districts close to the Russian border, after Russia announced a partial mobilization. Latvia announced the expulsion of the Russian ambassador in January 2023. In March Russia imposed sanctions on 144 citizens of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, in reprisal for the three states’ support for more stringent EU sanctions. In March 2024 the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs published a list of 347 Baltic politicians who were prohibited from entering Russian territory. On 9 April the Latvian Government announced its support for a bilateral agreement with Ukraine on long-term assistance and security commitments, under which Latvia pledged comprehensive military and non-military aid, and its support for Ukrainian membership of both the EU and NATO.</p>
                         <p>Latvia announced plans in June 2023 to establish a new NATO training base in the south-east of the country, the Selonia Military Training Area, with investment of some €38m.; the first phase was scheduled for completion by 2025. In January 2024 Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia agreed to establish a common Baltic defence zone on their borders with Russia and Belarus.</p>
                    </is-section>
               </is-section>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="LV.IS.40" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Constitution and Government</heading>
               <p id="LV.IS.41">
        Under the terms of the 1922 Constitution, which was restored in July 1993 and subsequently amended, Latvia is an independent democratic parliamentary republic. The supreme legislative body is the Saeima (Parliament), the 100 members of which are elected by universal adult suffrage for a four-year term. The President of the Republic, who is Head of State, is elected by a secret ballot of Parliament, also for a period of four years. The President may not serve for more than two consecutive terms. Executive power is held by the Cabinet of Ministers, which is led by the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is appointed by the President; the remaining members of the Cabinet are nominated by the Prime Minister. Judges are independent, and their appointment is confirmed by Parliament. For administrative purposes, Latvia comprises 42 municipal units.
        <!--https://www.cvk.lv/en/elections/local-elections/local-elections-2021-->
               </p>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="LV.IS.12646936731" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Regional and International Co-operation</heading>
               <p>
        Latvia is a member of the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="EBRD.IO">European Bank for Reconstruction and Development</xr>
        , the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="CBSS.IO">Council of the Baltic Sea States</xr>
        , the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.9">Baltic Council</xr>
        , the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="CE.IO">Council of Europe</xr>
         and the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="OSCE.IO">Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe</xr>
        . In 2004 it acceded to the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="WB02047.IO.TXT">European Union</xr>
        .
      </p>
               <p>
        Latvia joined the United Nations in 1991 and was admitted to the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="WTO.IO">World Trade Organization</xr>
         in 1999. The country joined the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="NATO.IO">North Atlantic Treaty Organization</xr>
         in 2004. Latvia acceded to the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="OECD.IO">Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development</xr>
         in June 2016. 
      </p>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="LV.IS.45" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Economic Affairs</heading>
               <!--Updates have been done from official source, World bank and UN. AkS (1/2/2012)-->
               <!--GDP growth rates have been taken from the World Bank files since components are not adding up to the totals in the UN database. Year on year growth rates are as per official chain linked data. Trade, employment, inflation, budget are all from official database. Energy is from world bank, debt is from IMF files. SK (13 Feb 2013)-->
               <!--Para 1 has been updated from world bank spread sheets. All trade figures, employment shares, sectoral contribution to GDP, unemployment and CPI figures are from the stats survey. Annual average growth rates are from world bank. Year on year growth rates have been calculated using chain linked data from the national web site. Energy figures are from world bank, debt figures from IMF. MA (28/01/2014)-->
               <!--Para 1 has been updated from world bank spread sheets. Annual average growth rates are taken from UN national accounst aggregate database since World bank cites data till 2010. Since january 2014 Latvia has replaced its currency from lats to euro and national website does not report data in lats anymore. So budget deficit figure and gross governemnt debt figures are expressed in their national currency, i.e. euro. As chain linked prices are not additive, y-o-y growths have been calculated from UN national accounts. NS (14/01/2015)-->
               <p id="LV.IS.46">In 2022, according to estimates by the World Bank, Latvia’s gross national income (GNI), measured at average 2020-22 prices, was US&#160;$40,495m., equivalent to $21,500 per head (or $39,260 per head on an international purchasing-power parity basis). During 2013-22, it was estimated, the population decreased at an annual average rate of 0.7%, while gross domestic product (GDP) per head increased by an annual average of 3.2%, in real terms. Overall GDP increased, in real terms, at an average annual rate of 2.4% in 2013-22, according to World Bank estimates; real GDP increased by 4.1% in 2021 and by 2.0% in 2022. According to chain-linking methodologies, GDP grew by 6.7% in 2021 and by 3.4% in 2022.</p>
               <p id="LV.IS.47">Agriculture (including forestry and fishing) contributed 5.7% of GDP and provided 6.8% of employment in 2022. The principal sectors are dairy farming and pig-breeding. The main crops are cereals, potatoes and fodder crops. Fishing makes an important contribution to the economy (over 90% of the total annual catch is exported). According to World Bank estimates, agricultural GDP increased, in real terms, at an average rate of 2.9% per year in 2013-22; GDP in the sector decreased by 8.9% in 2021, but increased by 7.0% in 2022. According to chain-linking methodologies, the GDP of the sector increased by 1.1% in 2021 and by 7.3% in 2022.</p>
               <p id="LV.IS.48">Industry (comprising mining and quarrying, manufacturing, construction and utilities) contributed 24.4% of GDP and provided 23.8% of employment in 2022. According to World Bank estimates, industrial GDP increased, in real terms, at an average annual rate of 1.8% in 2013-22; the GDP of the industrial sector increased by 1.9% in 2021, but decreased by 2.7% in 2022.</p>
               <p id="LV.IS.49">Mining and quarrying contributed 0.5% of GDP in 2022, when the sector employed 0.3% of workers. Latvia has limited mineral resources, the most important being peat, dolomite, limestone, gypsum, amber, gravel and sand. Offshore and onshore petroleum reserves have been located. According to United Nations (UN) estimates, the GDP of the mining sector (together with utilities) decreased, in real terms, at an average annual rate of 0.9% in 2013-22. According to chain-linking methodologies, the GDP of the mining sector decreased by 5.0% in 2021 and by 0.4% in 2022.</p>
               <p id="LV.IS.50">The manufacturing sector contributed 14.7% of GDP and provided 12.9% of employment in 2022. According to World Bank estimates, real manufacturing GDP grew by an average of 3.9% per year in 2013-22; GDP in the sector increased by 7.4% in 2021 and by 2.7% in 2022. According to chain-linking methodologies, the GDP of the sector increased by 10.3% in 2021 and by 2.7% in 2022.</p>
               <p id="LV.IS.2009">The construction sector contributed 5.0% of GDP and provided 8.2% of employment in 2022. During 2013-22, according to UN estimates, the GDP of the sector decreased at an average annual rate of 1.1%. According to chain-linking methodologies, the GDP of the sector decreased by 13.6% in 2021 and by 8.8% in 2022.</p>
               <p id="LV.IS.51">Latvia is highly dependent on imported fuels to provide energy. In 2022 mineral fuels represented 20.6% of the total value of imports. Electric energy is supplied primarily by Estonia and Lithuania, and until 2022 petroleum products were supplied principally by the Russian Federation; Latvia was ending its dependence on Russian energy imports following Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. In 2015 natural gas provided some 49.8% of annual domestic electricity production in Latvia, while 33.6% was derived from hydroelectric plants.</p>
               <p id="LV.IS.52">The services sector contributed 69.9% of GDP and accounted for 69.5% of employment in 2022. According to World Bank estimates, the GDP of the sector increased, in real terms, by an annual average of 2.5% in 2013-22; real services GDP increased by 4.2% in 2022.</p>
               <p id="LV.IS.53">In 2022 Latvia recorded a visible merchandise trade deficit of US&#160;$4,281.8m., and there was a deficit of $1,935.6m. on the current account of the balance of payments. The principal source of imports in 2022 was Lithuania, which accounted for 24.3% of total imports; other major sources were Estonia, Germany, Poland and Russia. The main market for exports in that year was also Lithuania, which accounted for 18.2% of the total; other significant purchasers were Estonia, Germany, Sweden, Russia and the United Kingdom. The principal exports in 2022 were wood and wood articles, machinery and electrical equipment, mineral products, chemicals, vegetable products, prepared foodstuffs, beverages and tobacco, and base metals. The principal imports in that year were mineral products, machinery and electrical equipment, vehicles and transport equipment, chemicals, prepared foodstuffs, beverages and tobacco, and base metals.</p>
               <p id="LV.IS.54">In 2022 there was a budgetary deficit of €1,789.3m. Latvia’s general government gross debt was €15,947m. in 2022, equivalent to 40.8% of GDP. At the end of 2011 Latvia’s external debt totalled US&#160;$38,255m., of which $7,075m. was public and publicly guaranteed debt. In that year the cost of servicing the debt was equivalent to 47.0% of the value of exports of goods and services. Annual consumer price inflation averaged 3.2% in 2013-22. Consumer prices increased by 3.3% in 2021 and by 17.2% in 2022. According to official statistics, some 6.9% of the population were unemployed in 2022.</p>
               <p id="LV.IS.56">
        The country adopted the euro as its national currency in January 2014. Latvia’s reputation as a regional financial centre suffered significant damage after accusations of money laundering were made by the US Treasury in February 2018 against Latvia’s ABLV Bank (which controlled 13% of Latvian banking assets and deposits and which subsequently closed). The Government introduced legislation to counter money laundering, in accordance with international recommendations, in June 2019. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic from March 2020, the Government announced&#160;financial measures totalling about €3,800m. to support affected businesses and employees, including temporary tax exemptions and loan guarantees and the subsidization of lost wages. The measures were financed in part by Eurobond issues amounting to €1,550m., and in April the Government signed a 10-year, €500m. loan agreement with the Nordic Investment Bank. After contracting in 2020, Latvia’s GDP rebounded in 2021. The Government lifted nearly all COVID-19 restrictions by April 2022. However, wide-ranging Western sanctions that were imposed against Russia following its invasion of Ukraine in February, and a concomitant rise in prices for energy and food, had a further adverse impact on inflation and GDP growth in Latvia. In July the Latvian Parliament approved legislation halting all Russian gas imports from 1 January 2023. Inflation averaged 17.2% in 2022, and the economy grew by 2.0%, according to the World Bank. The second administration of (Arturs) Krišjānis Kariņš, appointed in December of that year following legislative elections, was confronted in 2023 with the ongoing impact of the war in Ukraine and the sanctions imposed on both Russia and Belarus (
        
        partly in response to its support for Russia’s invasion of Ukraine), high rates of inflation and threats to the country’s energy security. The Government had collapsed by August 2023, but the new coalition administration that took office in September remained committed to the provision of aid and military support to Ukraine, pledging continued military assistance worth 0.25% of GDP until 2026. Official figures indicated that GDP contracted by 0.3% in 2023, but the IMF reported that the average annual rate of consumer price inflation moderated to 9.1% in that year, while growth was forecast to resume in 2024 at a rate of 1.7%.
      </p>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="LV.IS.59" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Public Holidays</heading>
               <public-holidays>
                    <holiday-year>
                         <year>2025</year>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>1 January</date>
                              <holiday-name>New Year’s Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>18-21April</date>
                              <holiday-name>Easter</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>1 May</date>
                              <holiday-name>Labour Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>4 May</date>
                              <holiday-name>Declaration of Independence Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>23-24 June</date>
                              <holiday-name>Midsummer Festival</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>18 November</date>
                              <holiday-name>National Day, proclamation of the Republic</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>24-26 December</date>
                              <holiday-name>Christmas—Gregorian</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>31 December</date>
                              <holiday-name>New Year’s Eve</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                    </holiday-year>
               </public-holidays>
          </is-section>
     </is-section>
</intro-survey>