<?xml version="1.0"?>
<chronology id="BG.CHRON" id-root="bg" original-filename="unknown" region="CASEE" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>Chronology</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Bulgaria</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Chronology</alt-heading>
     <chron-list>
          <chron-entry from-date="0865-01-01" to-date="0865-12-31">
               <chron-head>865</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Khan of the Bulgars, Boris (852-89), converted to Eastern Orthodox Christianity, following the missionary activity of the Eastern Roman (Byzantine’) brothers, SS Constantine (Cyril) and Methodius.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="0893-01-01" to-date="0927-12-31">
               <chron-head>893-927</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Reign of Simeon, first Tsar of the Bulgars, who failed in his ambition to take Constantinople (İstanbul, now in Türkiye—formerly known as Turkey) and the Byzantine throne, but established a powerful empire and instituted the Bulgarian Church as the first new autocephalous Orthodox church.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="0971-01-01" to-date="0971-12-31">
               <chron-head>971</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Annexation of eastern Bulgaria as a Byzantine province.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1014-01-01" to-date="1014-12-31">
               <chron-head>1014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Bulgar ruler, Samuel, was defeated at the battle of Balathista by the Emperor Basil II (the Slayer of the Bulgars’), who subsequently designated western Bulgaria a Byzantine province.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1187-01-01" to-date="1187-12-31">
               <chron-head>1187</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following a decline in Byzantine power, the Emperor in Constantinople recognized the establishment of the second Bulgarian Empire, under the Asen dynasty.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1330-01-01" to-date="1330-12-31">
               <chron-head>1330</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Bulgars were defeated by Serbian forces at the battle of Küstendil (Velbuzhde).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1396-01-01" to-date="1396-12-31">
               <chron-head>1396</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Bulgaria became a province of the Turkish OsmanlI (Ottoman) Empire.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1870-01-01" to-date="1870-12-31">
               <chron-head>1870</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Establishment of an autocephalous Exarchate of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church (not recognized by Constantinople until 1945).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1876-01-01" to-date="1876-12-31">
               <chron-head>1876</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Violent suppression of Bulgarian uprisings by the Ottomans.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1877-01-01" to-date="1877-12-31">
               <chron-head>1877</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Russia declared war on the Turks in support of the Orthodox, Slav subjects of the Ottoman Empire.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1878-01-01" to-date="1878-12-31">
               <chron-head>1878</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Ottomans recognized an autonomous principality of Bulgaria, at the Congress of Berlin; Eastern Rumelia and Macedonia remained under Turkish rule.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1879-01-01" to-date="1879-12-31">
               <chron-head>1879</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The first Velikoto Narodno Sobranie (Grand National Assembly) of Bulgaria, meeting in the town of Tarnovo (now Veliko Tarnovo), adopted a liberal constitution (the Tarnovo Constitution’) and invited the nephew of the Russian Tsarina, Aleksandar von Battenburg, of the House of Hesse-Darmstadt, to become the ruling prince.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1885-01-01" to-date="1885-12-31">
               <chron-head>1885</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Eastern Rumelia was annexed by Bulgaria. Serbian forces were defeated at the battle of Slivnitsa.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1887-01-01" to-date="1887-12-31">
               <chron-head>1887</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Election of Ferdinand of Saxe-Coburg (Sakskoburg) as Prince of Bulgaria, following the abdication of Aleksandar.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1903-08-02">
               <chron-head>2 August 1903</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Bulgarians in Pirin Macedonia took part in the Ilinden uprising—a revolt against the Ottoman authorities organized by the Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization (IMRO). The revolt was suppressed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1908-10-01" to-date="1908-10-31">
               <chron-head>October 1908</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Upheavals in the Ottoman Empire included the proclamation by Tsar Ferdinand I of an independent Bulgarian kingdom.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1913-08-01" to-date="1913-08-31">
               <chron-head>August 1913</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Peace of Bucharest concluded the Second Balkan War: Bulgaria lost Macedonia and the Dobrudzha.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1915-10-12">
               <chron-head>12 October 1915</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Bulgaria declared war on Serbia, thus entering the First World War on the side of the Central Powers of Germany, Austria-Hungary and the Turkish Empire.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1918-09-29">
               <chron-head>29 September 1918</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Bulgaria surrendered unconditionally to the Entente Powers, with the consequent abdication of Ferdinand I and the accession of Boris III.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1919-11-29">
               <chron-head>29 November 1919</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Treaty of Neuilly was signed. Bulgaria was forced to cede its Thracian territories and Mediterranean coast to Greece; it also ceded territory on its western frontier to Yugoslavia (then known as the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes) and returned the Dobrudzha (which it had regained by the Peace of Bucharest of May 1918) to Romania.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1923-01-01" to-date="1923-12-31">
               <chron-head>1923</chron-head>
               <chron-text>
        A 
        <i>putsch</i>
         by army officers resulted in the suppression of the Peasants’ Party and the Communist Party.
      </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1934-05-19">
               <chron-head>19 May 1934</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A coup by two nationalist organizations, Zveno and the Association of the Officers of the Reserve, led to the establishment of the authoritarian regime of Col Kimon Georghiev.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1935-01-01" to-date="1935-01-31">
               <chron-head>January 1935</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Col Georghiev resigned; authoritarian rule was continued by Boris III.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1940-08-30">
               <chron-head>30 August 1940</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The second Arbitration Award of Vienna restored Southern Dobrudzha to Bulgaria (confirmed in 1947).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1941-03-01">
               <chron-head>1 March 1941</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Bulgaria signed a pact with the Axis Powers of Germany and Italy and, following the commencement of war in the Balkans, gained western Macedonia from Yugoslavia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1943-08-01" to-date="1943-08-31">
               <chron-head>August 1943</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Death of Boris III; a regency was established for the young Tsar, Simeon II.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1944-09-05">
               <chron-head>5 September 1944</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) declared war on Bulgaria. Three days later Bulgaria declared war on Germany.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1944-09-09">
               <chron-head>9 September 1944</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following a coup by the Otechestven Front (Fatherland Front), a left-wing alliance dominated by the Balgarska Komunisticheska Partiya (BKP—Bulgarian Communist Party), the Soviet army occupied Bulgaria.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1944-10-28">
               <chron-head>28 October 1944</chron-head>
               <chron-text>An armistice was signed with the Allies.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1946-09-15">
               <chron-head>15 September 1946</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Tsar Simeon II was formally deposed and a Republic was declared, following a referendum.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1946-11-01" to-date="1946-11-30">
               <chron-head>November 1946</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Georgi Dimitrov, First Secretary of the BKP, became Chairman of the Council of Ministers (Prime Minister).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1947-02-22">
               <chron-head>22 February 1947</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A peace treaty was signed with the Allies.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1947-12-01" to-date="1947-12-31">
               <chron-head>December 1947</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Constitution abolished all opposition parties and established a system based on the Soviet model. Bulgaria became a People’s Republic.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1949-03-01" to-date="1949-03-31">
               <chron-head>March 1949</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Dimitrov was replaced as Chairman of the Council of Ministers by Vasil Kolarov.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1949-07-01" to-date="1949-07-31">
               <chron-head>July 1949</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Valko Chervenkov became leader of the BKP, following Dimitrov’s death, and Chairman of the Council of Ministers from February 1950.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1954-03-01" to-date="1954-03-31">
               <chron-head>March 1954</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Todor Zhivkov became leader of the BKP.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1956-04-01" to-date="1956-04-30">
               <chron-head>April 1956</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Anton Yugov replaced Chervenkov as Chairman of the Council of Ministers.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1962-11-01" to-date="1962-11-30">
               <chron-head>November 1962</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Zhivkov replaced Yugov as Chairman of the Council of Ministers.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1965-01-01" to-date="1965-12-31">
               <chron-head>1965</chron-head>
               <chron-text>An army coup attempt was suppressed, enabling Zhivkov to consolidate his position.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1971-05-16">
               <chron-head>16 May 1971</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Constitution was adopted, following a referendum; the Constitution established the Council of State as the supreme executive and legislative body. Zhivkov relinquished his former government posts to become President of the Council of State (head of state) and was succeeded as Prime Minister by Stanko Todorov.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1981-06-01" to-date="1981-06-30">
               <chron-head>June 1981</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following elections to the Narodno Sobranie (National Assembly), Grisha Filipov became Chairman of the Council of Ministers.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1986-03-20">
               <chron-head>20 March 1986</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Filipov was replaced as Prime Minister by Georgi Atanasov.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1988-03-01" to-date="1988-03-31">
               <chron-head>March 1988</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Candidates other than those nominated by the BKP were permitted to stand in local elections, although in July a number of prominent proponents of reform were dismissed from office.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1989-08-22">
               <chron-head>22 August 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Turkish Government closed the border with Bulgaria, some 310,000 refugees having fled the programme of assimilation and the violent suppression of protests.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1989-11-10">
               <chron-head>10 November 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Zhivkov was forced to resign from his post as General Secretary of the BKP, following demonstrations. One week later Petar Mladenov was elected by the National Assembly to succeed Zhivkov as President of the Council of State. The Government announced the dissolution of the secret police.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1990-01-01" to-date="1990-01-31">
               <chron-head>January 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The National Assembly revoked the leading role of the BKP.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1990-02-01" to-date="1990-02-28">
               <chron-head>February 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Aleksandar Lilov replaced Mladenov as head of the Supreme Council of the BKP. Atanasov resigned as Prime Minister and was replaced by Andrei Lukanov, who headed a Government comprising only members of the BKP.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1990-04-03">
               <chron-head>3 April 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Mladenov was elected to the new post of President of the country by the National Assembly. The BKP changed its name to the Balgarska Sotsialisticheska Partiya (BSP—Bulgarian Socialist Party).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1990-06-17">
               <chron-head>17 June 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>
        The second round of voting in elections to a Grand National Assembly, which was, 
        <i>inter alia</i>
        , to draw up a new constitution, took place, amid widespread allegations of electoral irregularities. However, the BSP won 211 seats out of a total of 400, the Sayuz na Demokratichnite Sili (SDS—Union of Democratic Forces) 144 and the Dvizhenie za Prava i Svobodi (DPS—Movement for Rights and Freedoms), which was principally supported by the Muslim population, won 23.
      </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1990-07-01" to-date="1990-07-31">
               <chron-head>July 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Mladenov announced his resignation as President, following a series of protests and strikes. The Grand National Assembly convened in Veliko Tarnovo, but the BSP soon lost its majority when the reformist Alternative Socialist Party faction left the party (joining the SDS in October).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1990-08-01">
               <chron-head>1 August 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Zheliu Zhelev, hitherto leader of the SDS, was elected President of the country by the Grand National Assembly. President Zhelev proposed that Lukanov form a new government, although the SDS refused to join a coalition with the BSP.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1990-11-01" to-date="1990-11-30">
               <chron-head>November 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Despite some reforms, including renaming the country the Republic of Bulgaria, there were increasing protests at the lack of progress in the Grand National Assembly on a new constitution. A general strike prompted the resignation of Lukanov once there was agreement on a multi-party administration under a non-party premier (later decided to be Dimitar Popov).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1990-12-14">
               <chron-head>14 December 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The major political groups signed the Agreement Guaranteeing the Peaceful Transition to a Demo­cratic Society, which committed support to the Popov Government, the drafting of a new constitution, the introduction of a market economy and the holding of a general election in 1991.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1991-05-01" to-date="1991-05-31">
               <chron-head>May 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A group of 39 SDS deputies withdrew from the Grand National Assembly session, protesting at its delays; this boycott was resolved, but it marked the beginning of a split in the SDS and its constituent parties.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-07-12">
               <chron-head>12 July 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Grand National Assembly finally ratified the Constitution, which was signed by 309 of the 400 deputies and came into effect on 13 July. (The Grand National Assembly, having thereby completed its activities, ended its session.)</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-10-13">
               <chron-head>13 October 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Despite internal divisions, in the elections to the new, 240-seat National Assembly the SDS emerged as the largest party, obtaining 110 seats. The SDS nominated the leader of the Green Party, Filip Dimitrov, as Prime Minister.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1992-01-19">
               <chron-head>19 January 1992</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Zheliu Zhelev won the presidential election with 53% of the votes cast, defeating the BSP-backed candidate, Valko Vul­kanov, in a second round of voting.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1992-12-01" to-date="1992-12-31">
               <chron-head>December 1992</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Lyuben Berov was eventually nominated for the post of Prime Minister (Dimitrov had lost a vote of censure in October) by the DPS; he was subsequently elected by the National Assembly to head a Council of Ministers largely without party affiliation (with the parliamentary support of the DPS, the BSP and a faction of the SDS). Berov resigned in September 1994, after failing to negotiate a reduction in Bul­garia’s foreign debt.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1994-10-01" to-date="1994-10-31">
               <chron-head>October 1994</chron-head>
               <chron-text>President Zhelev dissolved parliament and appointed Reneta Indzhova to head an interim Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1994-12-18">
               <chron-head>18 December 1994</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In the general election the BSP secured an outright majority in the National Assembly, receiving 52.1% of the votes cast. Videnov was appointed Prime Minister of a new Government at the end of January 1995.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1996-10-02">
               <chron-head>2 October 1996</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Former Prime Minister Andrei Lukanov (who had remained an influential member of the BSP and critic of the Videnov regime) was assassinated.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1996-11-03">
               <chron-head>3 November 1996</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In the second round of voting in the presidential election, Petar Stoyanov of the SDS was elected to the presidency, with 59.7% of the votes cast.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1996-12-01" to-date="1996-12-31">
               <chron-head>21 December 1996</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following increasing dissatisfaction within his own party and demonstrations by the SDS, Videnov offered his resignation as Prime Minister and party leader.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1997-01-01" to-date="1997-01-31">
               <chron-head>19 January 1997</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Stoyanov was inaugurated as Presi­dent, and he invited the BSP to form an administration.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1997-02-01" to-date="1997-02-28">
               <chron-head>February 1997</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Amid fears of civil conflict following further SDS protests, the Minister of the Interior and Prime Minister-delegate, Nikolai Dobrev, relinquished his mandate; President Stoyanov nominated the Mayor of Sofia, Stefan Sofianski, to head an interim Council of Ministers and the National Assembly was dissolved on 19 February.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1997-04-19">
               <chron-head>19 April 1997</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In elections to the National Assembly, the SDS secured 52.6% of the votes cast and 137 seats, while the BSP, which contested the elections in the Demokratichna Levitsa (Democratic Left) alliance, obtained 22.1% of the votes and 58 seats. The Alliance for National Salvation, a coalition dominated by the DPS, won 19 seats; the newly established Balgarska Evrolevista (Bulgarian Euro-Left) obtained 14 seats and the Balgarski Biznes Blok (BBB—Bulgarian Business Bloc) secured 12 seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1997-05-21">
               <chron-head>21 May 1997</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The National Assembly elected Ivan Kostov of the SDS as Prime Minister.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1998-12-01" to-date="1998-12-31">
               <chron-head>December 1998</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following the Constitutional Court’s ruling that the communist confiscation of property was illegal, former Tsar Simeon II (Simeon Sakskoburggotski) returned to Bulgaria from his home in Spain, after 52 years in exile.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2001-04-28">
               <chron-head>28 April 2001</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Supreme Court of Appeal upheld a ruling of the City Court of Sofia that the newly founded Natsionalno Dvizhenie (National Movement), led by Sakskoburggotski, was not eligible to participate in the forthcoming legislative elections. The organization subsequently entered into an alliance with two smaller, registered parties, forming the Natsionalno Dvizhenie Simeon Vtori (NDSV—National Movement Simeon II), in order to take part in the elections.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2001-06-17">
               <chron-head>17 June 2001</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In the general election the NDSV won 42.7% of the votes cast and 120 of the 240 seats in the National Assembly, while the incumbent SDS obtained 18.2% of the votes and the Koalitsiya za Balgaria (KB—Coalition for Bulgaria), an alliance dominated by the BSP, secured 17.1%. The only other party to receive the 4% of votes required for representation in parliament was the DPS, with 7.5%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2001-07-24">
               <chron-head>24 July 2001</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Sakskoburggotski was sworn in as Prime Minister of a coalition Government comprising the NDSV, the DPS and the BSP.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2001-11-18">
               <chron-head>18 November 2001</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In the second round of voting in the presidential election, contested by Georgi Parvanov and Stoyanov, Parvanov emerged as the victor, with 54.1% of the votes cast.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2002-01-19">
               <chron-head>19 January 2002</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parvanov was sworn in as the country’s President.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2002-04-06">
               <chron-head>6 April 2002</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The NDSV was finally registered as a party, and Sakskoburggotski was elected as its Chairman.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2002-11-21">
               <chron-head>21 November 2002</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At a summit meeting of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), held in Prague, the Czech Republic, Bulgaria was one of seven countries to be formally invited to accede to the Alliance; Bulgaria became a full member of NATO on 29 March 2004.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2005-06-25">
               <chron-head>25 June 2005</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At a general election, the KB, led by Sergey Stanishev’s BSP, received 34.2% of the votes cast, the NDSV 22.1%, the DPS 14.2%, the recently formed radical nationalist Partiya Ataka (Attack Party) 8.8% and the SDS 8.3%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2005-08-16">
               <chron-head>16 August 2005</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The National Assembly approved a new, coalition Government, led by Stanishev, and comprising members of the BSP, the NDSV and the DPS.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2006-10-26">
               <chron-head>29 October 2006</chron-head>
               <chron-text>After a first round of presidential voting proved inconclusive, since the rate of participation fell short of the 50% required by the Constitution, the first-placed candidate, Parvanov, who secured some 64.1% of the votes cast, progressed to a second round of voting against Volen Siderov of Ataka, who received 21.5% of the votes cast. At this round there was no required minimum voting level, and Parvanov achieved victory, with 76.0% of the votes, thereby becoming the first post-communist president of Bulgaria to be elected to a second term of office.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2007-01-01">
               <chron-head>1 January 2007</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Bulgaria formally acceded to membership of the European Union (EU).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2007-05-22">
               <chron-head>20 May 2007</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At elections to the European Parliament, both the SDS and the Demokrati za Silna Balgariya (Democrats for a Strong Bulgaria—DSB—which had been established in 2004 by a dissident faction of the SDS) failed to secure representation, prompting the resignations of Stoyanov and Kostov from the leadership of their respective parties; the BSP and the newly established, centre-right Grazhdani za Evropeysko Razvitie na Balgariya (GERB—Citizens for European Development of Bulgaria) each secured five of the 18 seats allocated. The NDSV obtained one seat, and in the following month reconstituted itself as the Natsionalno Dvizhenie za Stabilnost i Vazkhod (National Movement for Stability and Progress).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2009-06-07">
               <chron-head>7 June 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At elections to the European Parliament, GERB secured 24.4% of the votes cast and five of the 17 seats allocated to Bulgaria, the KB (an eight-party alliance, again led by the BSP) 18.5% of the votes and four seats, and the DPS 14.1% and three seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2009-07-05">
               <chron-head>5 July 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Elections were conducted to the National Assembly, in which GERB secured 39.7% of the votes cast and 116 seats, while the BSP-led KB received 17.7% of the votes and 40 seats, and the DPS 14.4% of the votes and 38 seats. A recount of overseas votes led to a ruling by the Constitutional Court increasing the number of seats held by GERB to 117, and reduced the representation of the DPS to 37.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2009-07-27">
               <chron-head>27 July 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A minority GERB Government, led by Boyko Borisov and supported by Ataka, the centre-right Sinyata Koalitsia (Blue Coalition), and Red, Zakonnost i Spravedlivost (RSZ—Order, Law and Justice), was approved by the legislature.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>30 October 2011</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a second round of voting in the presidential election, Rosen Plevneliev of GERB (hitherto Minister of Regional Development and Public Works) was elected to the presidency with 52.6% of the votes cast, defeating BSP candidate Ivaylo Kalfin. (Parvanov had served two terms in office, and was prohibited from seeking re-election.) The rate of participation by the electorate was estimated at 48.3%. Municipal elections were conducted in two rounds concurrently with the presidential voting: GERB retained control of the principal towns.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>20 February 2013</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following escalating violence between protesters and the police, Prime Minister Borisov announced the resignation of the Government. On 13 March a small caretaker cabinet, with an independent, Marin Raykov, as acting Prime Minister, was sworn in.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>12 May 2013</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Early legislative elections took place, in which GERB secured 30.6% of the votes cast and 97 seats, the BSP-led KB 26.6% and 84 seats, the DPS 11.3% and 36 seats and Ataka 7.3% and 23 seats; the rate of participation by the electorate was 51.3%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>29 May 2013</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new coalition administration, under the premiership of Plamen Oresharski of the BSP, and comprising members of the BSP, the DPS and independents, was established. Tsvetlin Yovchev of the BSP was appointed Minister of the Interior; in the following month he also become Deputy Prime Minister.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>14 June 2013</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Popular protests resumed, in response to the approval by the National Assembly of Delyan Peevski, a businessman with substantial media interests, as Chairman of the State Agency for National Security (DANS). After President Plevneliev questioned Peevski’s suitability for the post, Peevski resigned and on 19 June the National Assembly revoked his appointment. A new Chairman of DANS, Vladimir Pisanchev, was appointed in mid-July. Meanwhile, Oresharski swiftly introduced reforms.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>23 October 2013</chron-head>
               <chron-text>University students in Sofia joined the anti-Government protests, occupying a university building; protests intensified and spread to other universities.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2009-06-07">
               <chron-head>25 May 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At elections to the European Parliament, GERB secured six of the 17 seats allocated to Bulgaria, the BSP our seats, and the DPS four seats. A four-party coalition led by Balgariya bez Tsenzura (Bulgaria Without Censorship), a populist party founded earlier in the year by a TV journalist, Nikolay Barekov, and the VMRO—Balgarsko Natsionalno Dvizhenie (VMRO—BND, IMRO—Bulgarian National Movement) obtained two seats, while the five-party, centre-right Reformatorski Blok (Reformist Bloc) coalition obtained one seat for a representative of alliance member the DSB. The rate of participation was 35.8%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>29 June 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>President Plevneliev scheduled early legislative elections for October, in the wake of threats to government stability following the European Parliament elections, exacerbated by cyber attacks.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>6 August 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>An interim Government, led by an independent, Georgi Bliznashki, took office, following the resignation of Oresharski’s Government on 23 July.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 October 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>GERB, led by Borisov, won 32.7% of the votes and 84 of the 240 seats in the National Assembly. A BSP-led coalition, BSP-Left Bulgaria, was second placed, with 15.4% of the votes and 39 seats, the DPS received 14.8% of the votes and 38 seats, and the Reformatorski Blok secured 8.9% of the votes and 23 seats. Four other parties also received parliamentary representation.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>7 November 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>
        A new, coalition Government, led by Borisov and comprising members of GERB, the Reformatorski Blok and the Alternativa za Balgarsko Vazrazhdane (ABV—Alternative for Bulgarian Revival, which had won 4.2% of the votes and 11 seats) was approved by the National Assembly, pledging to undertake economic reforms. The new coalition also relied on parliamentary support from nationalist coalition the Patryotychen Front (Patriotic Front), comprising 
        <!--as in History, and seems to be general usage-->
        VMRO—BND and the Natsionalen Front za Spasenie na Bulgaria (NFSB—National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria), which had 19 seats in the National Assembly.
      </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 December 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A reform intended to strengthen the independence of the judiciary (in accordance with EU requirements) was adopted by the National Assembly; however, all parties apart from those of the Reformatorski Blok opposed curbs on the powers of the Prosecutor-General and voted in favour of an amended version of the legislation. Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov resigned immediately afterwards.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>10 March 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ataka leader Siderov pleaded guilty at Sofia City Court to three charges, including assault.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>10 May 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The ABV announced its withdrawal from the Government, prompting the resignation of Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin, as well as the resignations of a number of ABV regional governors, in protest against the adoption of amendments to the electoral code, including the introduction of mandatory voting.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>6 November 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a first round of presidential voting, Rumen Radev, who had resigned as air force commander in August, emerged as the winner, with 25.4% of the votes, having contested the election as an independent candidate (with the support of the BSP). Second-placed was parliamentary Presi­dent Tsetska Tsacheva of GERB, with 22.0%; Krasimir Karakachanov, representing an opposition coalition comprising VMRO—BND, the NFSB and Ataka, the Obedineni Patrioti (OP—United Patriots), received 15.0%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 November 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Radev was elected to the presidency, with 59.4% of the votes cast in the second round of presidential voting. Tsacheva obtained 36.2%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>14 November 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Borisov tendered the resignation of his Government, which was approved by the National Assembly two days later.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>22 January 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Radev was inaugurated as President.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>24 January 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Efforts to form a new government had failed, and Radev scheduled pre-term legislative elections for 26 March. Three days later former parliamentary President Ognian Gerdjikov formed an interim Government, and the National Assembly was dissolved.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>26 March 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The general election took place, with a rate of participation by the electorate of 54.1%. Borisov’s GERB was the most successful party, attracting 33.5% of the votes cast and 95 seats. Meanwhile, the BSP, as part of an electoral alliance, secured 27.9% of the votes, and increased its representation significantly, to 80 seats. The OP obtained 9.3% of the votes and 27 seats, followed by the DPS, with 9.2% and 26 seats. Populist party Volya (Will) took the remaining 12 seats, with 4.3% of the votes.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>4 May 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Boyko Borisov returned to office as Prime Minister of a new coalition Government, led by GERB, and comprising members of the OP (VMRO—BND and the NFSB), and independents.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>18 January 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A friendship treaty between Bulgaria and North Macedonia was ratified by the National Assembly; it entered into force in mid-February.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>27 February 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>
        The trial began, 
        <i>in absentia</i>
        , of Tsvetan Vassilev, the former chief executive of Corpbank, previously the country’s fourth largest lender, which had failed in 2014 amid allegations of corruption; 17 other former banking officials were also on trial, accused of embezzlement.
      </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>25 August 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A car crash near Svoge, in which 17 people were killed, resulted in protests at the poor condition of the road, and criticism of alleged corruption in state road construction. Prime Minister Borisov demanded the resignations of the ministers responsible for the interior, regional development and transport.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>20 September 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The nominations of three new ministers were approved by the National Assembly; Mladen Marinov was appointed as Minister of the Interior.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>16 November 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The NFSB leader and Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy, Valeri Simeonov, resigned his ministerial post following protests in Sofia to demand his departure.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>26 May 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Elections to the European Parliament took place. According to the official results, GERB secured 31.1% of the votes cast and six of the 17 seats allocated to Bulgaria, the BSP won 24.3% of the votes and five seats, the DPS 16.6% and three seats and VMRO—BND 7.4% and two seats. A grouping of centre-right parties, Demokratichna Balgariya (Democratic Bulgaria—DB), won 6.1% of the votes and the remaining seat. Turnout was recorded at 32.6%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>27 October and 3 November 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Local elections took place, in which GERB retained 15 of the 28 regional mayoralties, including Sofia (and supported winning candidates in two others); GERB lost four regional cities to the BSP and three to independent candidates.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 January 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Minister of the Environment and Water, Neno Dimov, was detained in relation to a criminal investigation into alleged mismanagement of a water crisis in Pernik. Dimov resigned the next day.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>4 February 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a televised address, President Radev formally withdrew his confidence in the Government, accusing it of encouraging the collapse of the state through its failure to combat corruption.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 March 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The National Assembly voted to declare a one-month national state of emergency, establishing wide-ranging containment measures in response to the emergence of COVID-19. In April the National Assembly approved an extension of the state of emergency until 13 May, when an emergency epidemic situation was declared, and subsequently repeatedly extended. However, restrictive measures began to be lifted in May.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>17 June 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Compromising photographs emerged, which appeared to show Borisov sleeping next to a gun and piles of bank notes. It was unclear whether the images had been manipulated in an attempt to discredit the Prime Minister. The images emerged days after illicitly obtained audio recordings had been released, which purported to provide evidence of unguarded comments by the Prime Minister.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 July 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Two presidential advisers were arrested owing to corruption allegations, after the presidential administration building was raided by investigators from the Prosecutor’s Office, in what was interpreted by some as an assault against the presidential institution, leading to protests in central Sofia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>10 July 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>EU ministers of finance confirmed that Bulgaria had fulfilled the economic criteria for admission to the exchange rate mechanism (ERM-II), entry to which is required before a country may adopt the euro. Also on 10 July the head of the National Security Service (NSS), Gen. Krasimir Stanchev, resigned, after it emerged that NSS employees had been used to guard a residence of oligarch and honorary DPS Chairman Ahmed Dogan, prompting fierce criticism.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>15 July 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Amid national anti-corruption protests, Borisov asked Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov, Minister of the Interior Mladen Marinov and Minister of the Economy Emil Karanikolov to resign. Protesters continued to demand the dismissals of Borisov and Prosecutor-General Ivan Geshev.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 July 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A motion of no confidence brought by the BSP was defeated, with the Government securing the support of 124 votes in the 240-seat legislature. A cabinet reshuffle took place on 23 July, but protests continued.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>26 August 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Minister of Justice, Danail Kirilov, announced his resignation. The following day the Central Election Commission head, Stefka Stoeva, announced her resignation, after criticizing the planned electoral reforms. Kirilov was replaced by his deputy, Desislava Ahladova.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>2 September 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The National Assembly reconvened. Protesters attempted to storm the parliamentary building. Some 38 people, including journalists, were injured, amid clashes with police. After protest leaders urged a parliamentary boycott, on 4 September opposition deputies failed to attend a parliamentary session, which duly lacked the necessary quorum; the parliamentary quorum was narrowly restored later that month. At the beginning of November the organizers declared a halt to the demonstrations, owing to a rise in cases of COVID-19.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>27 November 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Government reintroduced new restrictions in an attempt to limit the spread of COVID-19, including school closures.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>4 April 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Elections to the National Assembly demonstrated a decline in support for the traditional political parties. GERB, in alliance with the SDS, obtained 25.8% of the votes cast and 75 seats (a loss of 20 seats), followed by new, populist party Ima Takav Narod (ITN—There is such a People), led by singer and television presenter Slavi Trifonov, with 17.4% and 51 seats. The BSP za Balgariya (BSP for Bulgaria) coalition was placed third, with 14.8% and 43 seats. Turnout was recorded at 49.1%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>12 May 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>President Radev dissolved the National Assembly and scheduled repeat elections for July, after no party was able to form a government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>11 July 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Repeat elections resulted in Trifonov’s ITN becoming the leading party, with 24.1% of the votes and 65 of the 240 seats in the legislature. The GERB-SDS alliance secured 23.5% of the votes and 63 seats, the BSP-led alliance won 13.4% and 36 seats, DB won 12.6% and 34 seats, the DPS 10.7% of the votes and 29 seats and the anti-corruption Izpravi se! Mutri vŭn! (Stand Up! Mafia, Get Out!) coalition (later renamed Izpravi se! Nie Idvame!, Stand Up! We are Coming!) won 5.0% of the votes and 13 seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>11 September 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>After attempts to form a new government again failed, Radev scheduled new elections for November, the same day as the first round of the presidential election.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>14 November 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In the legislative elections, a new centrist, anti-corruption grouping, Prodalzhavame Promyanata (PP—We Continue the Change), led by Kiril Petkov and Asen Vassilev, ministers in the outgoing interim administration, won 25.7% of the votes cast and 67 seats. The GERB-SDS alliance attracted 22.7% of the votes and 59 seats, the DPS won 13.0% and 34 seats, and BSP za Balgariya secured 10.2% and 26 seats; the ITN won 9.5% of the votes and 25 seats, and the DB alliance obtained 6.4% and 16 seats, while the nationalist Vazrazhdane (Revival) party received 4.9% and 13 seats. In the first round of presidential voting Radev secured 49.4% of the votes cast, while the second-placed candidate, academic Anastas Gerdzhikov, who was supported by the GERB-SDS alliance, received 22.8%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 November 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Radev was re-elected to the presidency in a second round of presidential voting, winning 66.7% of the votes.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>24 November 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Government extended the emergency epidemic situation until the end of March 2022.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 December 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A Government led by PP co-leader Petkov, and including members of the BSP, the ITN and DB, received parliamentary approval.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>24 February 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The National Assembly approved a declaration condemning Russia’s large-scale military invasion of Ukraine the same day; Vazrazhdane withheld its support, and the BSP abstained from voting on a clause supporting the adoption of international sanctions against Russia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>1 March 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Minister of Defence Stefan Yanev was removed from his post, after he repeatedly referred to the large-scale invasion of Ukraine by Russia as a `special operation’, the term used by Russian President Vladimir Putin. He was replaced by Dragomir Zakov, hitherto Bulgaria’s Permanent Representative to NATO.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>27 April 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Russian energy monopoly Gazprom suspended gas supplies to Bulgaria (and Poland), citing the countries’ failure to comply with its demand for payment in Russian roubles.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 June 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>
        The ITN announced that it was to withdraw its ministers from the Government, amid disagreements over spending and moves by Petkov to lift the country’s veto on initiating EU accession negotiations with North Macedonia (introduced owing to a dispute over, 
        <i>inter alia</i>
        , the rights of the Bulgarian minority in North Macedonia).
      </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>16 June 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Opposition parliamentarians voted to put the Government to a vote of no confidence, and to remove Nikola Minchev of the PP as President of the National Assembly.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>22 June 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The motion of no confidence, proposed by GERB with the support of ITN, was backed by 123 votes in the 240-seat National Assembly and prompted the resignation of the Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>24 June 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The National Assembly voted to withdraw the veto that had prevented EU candidate country North Macedonia (and co-candidate Albania) from commencing accession talks with the organization. The agreement was subject to four conditions: that the ethnic Bulgarian minority be recognized in the North Macedonia Constitution; that there be no automatic recognition of the Macedonian language by Bulgaria; that the EU negotiating framework include protocols governing bilateral relations between Bulgaria and North Macedonia; and that the implementation of the agreement be overseen by the European Commission. The French-mediated compromise resolution to the dispute, including the constitutional recognition of the existence of a Bulgarian minority, was approved by the Macedonian Assembly on 16 July.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>1 August 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Radev scheduled new legislative elections for 2 October. He appointed his social policy adviser, Galab Donev, to head a new, interim Government with effect from the following day; the new administration contained several members of previous interim cabinets.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>1 October 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Gas Interconnector Greece-Bulgaria pipeline opened.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>2 October 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In the legislative elections, Borisov’s GERB, contesting the elections in alliance with the SDS, emerged as the overall leader, with 25.3% of the votes and 67 seats, while the anti-corruption PP alliance was second-placed, securing 20.2% of the votes and 53 seats. The DPS received 13.8% and 36 seats, and the pro-Russia Vazrazhdane 10.2% and 27 seats, followed by BSP za Balgariya (9.3% and 25 seats), the DB alliance (7.5% and 20 seats), and the newly formed Balgarski Vazhod (Bulgarian Rise), which won 4.6% and 12 seats. The ITN did not achieve parliamentary representation. Turnout was recorded at 39.4%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>19 October 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The National Assembly convened. Two days later Vezhdi Rashidov of GERB was elected as its new President.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>3 November 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The legislature voted officially to supply heavy military aid to Ukraine, following months of division over the issue.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>16 November 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The interim Government announced the removal of the last remaining COVID-19 restrictions that had been imposed in March 2020.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 December 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Council of the EU rejected the admission of Bulgaria and Romania to the EU’s Schengen visa-free travel zone (Croatia’s admission was approved).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>3 January 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Radev invited Nikolai Denkov of PP to form a new coalition; however, Denkov’s attempt to secure parliamentary approval failed, and the BSP also subsequently returned its mandate.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>2 February 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Radev announced the dissolution of the National Assembly, with effect from the following day, and legislative elections were again scheduled, for 2 April. Prime Minister Galab Donev was re-appointed to lead the interim administration.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>2 April 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Bulgaria held its fifth legislative elections since April 2021. However, the results of the new elections were again inconclusive. GERB-SDS won 26.5% of the votes and 69 seats, closely followed by a PP-DB alliance with 24.6% of the votes and 64 seats, while third-placed was Vazrazhdane, with 14.2% of the votes and 37 seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>6 June 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new coalition Government took office, ending the longstanding impasse. Under a power-sharing agreement, the Government was to be led by two rotating premiers. Denkov, representing the PP-DB, took office as Prime Minister, and former European Commissioner Mariya Gabriel of GERB became Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs; she was to succeed Denkov as premier after a period of nine months.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
     </chron-list>
</chronology>