<?xml version="1.0"?>
<country-survey id="RS.EC" id-root="rs" iso="rs" print-style="PGWIDTH" sect-type="economy" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>Economy</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Serbia</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Economy</alt-heading>
     <author-group>
          <primary-authors>
               <person-name>
                    <forename>Cvete</forename>
                    <surname>Koneska</surname>
               </person-name>
          </primary-authors>
     </author-group>
     <p>Head of Advisory at Dragonfly Intelligence, London, United Kingdom.</p>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Introduction</heading>
          <p id="COPY.EDITED.RS.EC.P1">The economic environment, globally and in South-Eastern Europe, has been deteriorating since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic in early 2020. The situation in that year was exceptionally challenging for the global economy. The pandemic interrupted and decelerated economic activities, both across borders and domestically within countries. During 2021 economies worldwide started to recover gradually from the slowdowns caused by the pandemic. Owing to the successful implementation of mass vaccination programmes, economic activity resumed and even accelerated in 2021. In Serbia, gross domestic product (GDP) rebounded with growth of 7.4%, after a contraction of 0.9% in 2020. This suggests that the Serbian economy has recovered to the level of its previous strong economic performances in 2018 and 2019, when GDP growth rates of 4.5% and 4.3%, respectively, were recorded. </p>
          <p>However, another slowdown followed in Serbia in 2022, with growth declining to only 2.3%. This was caused by the adverse economic impact of the Russian Federation’s invasion of Ukraine in February, which led to the immediate imposition of an extensive series of economic sanctions against Russia by the West, including plans to reduce imports of Russian oil and natural gas. Although Serbia does not participate in the broader trade and energy sanctions, since it, like most other states in the region, has imported a large share of its oil and gas supplies from Russia, their impact and rising energy prices are likely to continue to depress economic growth in coming years. </p>
          <p>Again, as with the COVID-19 pandemic, economic difficulties are affecting the entire region and the impact is felt globally. Most other countries in Europe experienced slow growth in 2022, significantly below the rates recorded in 2021, including neighbouring Bulgaria (3.4% compared with 4.2% in 2021), Romania (4.8% compared with 5.9% in 2021) and Croatia (6.3% compared with 10.5% in 2021). Against the regional background, however, Serbia’s economy appears slower and less insulated from the adverse economic effects of the geopolitical shifts in Europe. Whatever advantage Serbia had in post-pandemic recovery due to its strong vaccination record appears to have been lost in the intervening year of geopolitical and security turmoil. </p>
          <p>Other economic indicators also suggest weak economic performance. Unemployment levels remained high in 2022, even though the unemployment rate fell to just under 10% in 2022, indicating a positive trajectory compared with the rates of previous years (13% in 2020 and 11.0% in 2021), but a sharp disparity with other economies of Central Eastern Europe. For instance, neighbouring Bulgaria and Romania had substantially lower unemployment rates (of 4.4% and 5.4%, respectively, in 2022).</p>
          <p>The incumbent Government, led by the conservative nationalist Srpska Napredna Stranka (SNS—Serbian Progressive Party), has made economic growth an overarching policy priority. In 2020 the Government implemented two major packages of protective economic measures, worth more than €7,000m., providing direct income support, loan guarantees and deferments, job protection and tax relief, which were intended to reduce the impact of the pandemic on businesses and households. The SNS-led Government was re-elected in April 2022. As in previous elections since 2012, economic success appears to represent the main legitimating factor for the Government’s performance.</p>
          <p>Over the past decade since it first took office in 2012, the Government has worked on several large initiatives: comprehensive privatization of the remaining state-owned companies; regulatory overhaul to improve the business environment and reduce the bureaucratic burden; and an ambitious incentives programme aimed at attracting foreign investment. Understanding whether the Government’s efforts are likely to produce the desired outcomes is crucial to expectations for the trajectory of the Serbian economy, and could, moreover, shed additional light on broader regional economic recovery trends, given Serbia’s importance to the economic performance of the entire Western Balkans.</p>
          <p>In view of this, the rest of this essay examines the principal challenges to sustainable economic recovery in Serbia. It consequently considers a broad range of factors, including geopolitical realignment in Europe, the pace of political and economic reforms, and the structural factors undermining the success of economic growth policies, as well as the wider external environment in the region and globally.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Reform Priorities</heading>
          <p>When the SNS took office after winning the 2012 elections, the Serbian economy was facing serious problems. The most urgent at that time was the need to stabilize public finances. The previous Government had refrained from implementing austerity measures to address the adverse effects of the global and European economic crises after 2008. As a result, deficit and debt levels had soared above the constitutionally prescribed limit of 65% of GDP. Debt levels increased to around 70% of GDP, raising fears about the Government’s ability to repay its debt. Therefore, one of the first issues to be addressed by the SNS-led Government was the state of the public finances. The Government introduced a strict austerity programme, freezing some public sector salaries and pensions and reducing others. It reviewed state subsidies for state-owned enterprises (SOEs), and envisaged their privatization, especially the loss-making ones that had persistently drained the state budget.</p>
          <p>By 2018 public debt had been progressively reduced to near 50% of GDP and two consecutive International Monetary Fund (IMF) credit arrangements had been successfully completed. At around the same time, the Government obtained the approval of the IMF to relax some of the austerity measures that had been in place since 2012, leading to small increases in public sector salaries and pensions. Budget deficits have been generally low and the Government has refrained from indulging in pre-election spending, despite having called three early elections since 2012 (in 2014, 2016 and 2022), in addition to those of 2020. </p>
          <p>The COVID-19 pandemic reversed some of the Government’s achievements in stabilizing public finance. As a result of the large economic stimulus package, increased overall government spending and declining revenues, the budget deficit reached 8.9% of GDP, compared with the Government’s initial plan for a balanced budget in 2020 (with a 0.3% deficit). This raised debt levels to around 56% of GDP, undoing some of the progress in reducing the overall debt over the past decade. Government plans to reduce debt to under 50% of GDP were further undermined by a larger than expected deficit in 2022, of almost 7%, driven by the high cost of energy imports.</p>
          <p>Nevertheless, the stabilization of public finances and reduction of public spending represent a major success for the Government. This success has also sent the right signal to investors and international organizations, which have been supportive of the Government’s efforts when needed. Indeed, despite the large budget deficit in 2020, the IMF in January 2021 announced that Serbia had successfully completed its programme under the Policy Coordination Instrument and would not be seeking any further monetary support from the Fund.</p>
          <p>The Government has successfully implemented several improvements to the business environment. Since 2012 it has introduced some reforms in labour, tax and corporate regulations. Aiming to improve the business environment and reduce the bureaucratic and regulatory burden on businesses, the Government has followed regional trends in cutting restrictions, relaxing the labour code and streamlining the tax regime. In particular, the SNS administrations have prioritized reforms that would make doing business easier, but that would not require serious intervention in the state and administrative apparatus. Consequently, the Government introduced `one-stop shops’ for foreign investors, and reduced the number of days and procedures required for obtaining permits and licences when setting up business operations. Due to such reforms, Serbia’s attractiveness to foreign investors increased.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section id="RS.13727758321" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Unfinished Reform Initiatives</heading>
          <p>Nevertheless, the Government has refrained from implementing reforms in public administration. Despite repeated recommendations from the IMF and other international institutions, it has been reluctant to undertake substantial restructuring of the sector. There are several reasons for this. First, such reforms would not be popular with the thousands of voters employed in these institutions, and any significant cutting of the numbers of public sector employees would have been likely to result in protests and strikes. Second, public sector employment is a valuable political tool, used by governing parties to reward their supporters, by providing them with employment opportunities. Removing this leverage would have left the governing party disadvantaged in the battle to win and, more importantly, to retain the support of the electorate over the past 10 years. With another economic downturn in 2022-23, jobs in the public sector are more attractive, providing a further incentive to delay public sector reforms. As a result, there are no immediate plans to restructure or reduce the large public administration.</p>
          <p>Inevitably, the lack of public administration reform adversely affects the economy. Apart from the direct cost to the state budget that public sector salaries necessitate, there are a few additional problems. For instance, the large bureaucracy is slow and inefficient at implementing and enforcing new regulations and legislation. Therefore, businesses cannot expect that any new rules will be enforced, or enforced evenly and consistently across the country or across sectors. As a result, neither costs nor delays are reduced as envisaged when the regulations were drafted, while businesses and investors continue to face obstacles, despite government pledges for an investor-friendly regulatory framework. This problem is particularly acute at the local level. Local administration often lacks the capacity to enforce legislation, which prevents it from facilitating economic growth and development. If businesses experience long delays in obtaining necessary local permits and services from local authorities, economic growth is likely to continue to falter.</p>
          <p>Similarly, the Government has been reluctant to privatize some of the largest and strategically more important SOEs. Although overall the Government has pursued privatization since 2012, some of the largest SOEs have been excluded, despite IMF recommendations to the contrary. Privatizing all SOEs will not necessarily lead to faster economic growth, but there are significant reasons why maintaining state ownership of large companies may not be the best decision in the longer term.</p>
          <p>First, the ownership of large, loss-making companies constitutes an obvious burden on the state budget. Year after year, the Government has provided state aid to failing state-owned industries. However, this state aid is insufficient for a sustained rehabilitation of such facilities, instead keeping them from bankruptcy but not helping them to become more productive and competitive. At the same time, the funds used for state aid are effectively diverted from other public investment projects. For example, the transport and energy infrastructure could benefit from additional investment. In turn, such upgrades could potentially boost economic performance across sectors and multiply the effects of state funds invested in infrastructure projects.</p>
          <p>Second, the decision to keep profitable SOEs in state ownership, or to sell them to hand-picked strategic partners, may adversely affect their long-term performance. Profitable state-owned companies are often subject to political influence, for example through politically motivated appointments on companies’ boards, which can negatively affect their performance. For example, expansion to new markets can be driven by foreign policy concerns, rather than by a sound business case. Similarly, the sale of such companies to a strategic investor selected by the Government without a competitive bidding procedure can undermine their longer-term value and performance. While strategic investors can often agree to retain workers and assume debt, it is unlikely that in the longer term the company will perform better than had it been sold to the most competitive bidder.</p>
          <p>Finally, perhaps the most important area of weak reform pertains to corruption, which remains among the principal concerns of businesses and investors when considering Serbia as a market. That corruption is widespread in Serbia—and other countries in the wider region—is not new. Businesses have been facing corrupt officials ever since the country opened to foreign investment and many have accepted it as the established way to do business. However, the costs and adverse effects of corruption on economic development are well known. It drives away investors unwilling to engage in bribery, undermines competition in the market by allowing corrupt and well-connected companies to win large government tenders, and ultimately reduces the value of investment and its returns for society.</p>
          <p>Yet, the Government has only half-heartedly engaged in anti-corruption reforms. While the Government endorses anti-corruption policies in its rhetoric and has made the fight against corruption a priority, in practice the effect of these policies has been limited. Most government efforts at tackling corruption have been focused on opposition politicians and at eradicating bribery at low, administrative levels. High-level political corruption has hardly been addressed, while anti-corruption bodies lack the resources and independence needed to investigate and prosecute government officials fully. Consequently, over the past few years, sporadic media allegations about corruption among high-ranking government officials (such as those against the former Mayor of the capital, Belgrade, and Minister of Finance Siniša Mali) have not led to any serious investigation by judicial and anti-corruption bodies. Such allegations hardly seem to affect political reputations, let alone lead to prison sentences, as has been the case in some neighbouring states, such as Romania.</p>
          <p>As a result, Serbia remains consistently towards the bottom of most anti-corruption indices and rankings in the region. While an imperfect measure of real corruption levels, non-governmental organization Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index regularly places Serbia among the more corrupt countries in Europe, with a ranking of 101st in 2022, behind most countries in the region, except Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania. Without a substantial initiative to address corruption, along with the underlying factors that enable it, such as poor rule of law, weak checks and balances on the Government, and persistent and opaque links between politics and businesses, corruption will continue to impede economic performance and undermine other efforts to boost the economy.</p>
          <p>Overall, by 2023, after a decade in office, the SNS-led Government was yet to complete some significant reforms that could assist in the revival of the economy and accelerate growth. With continued support among the public and the electorate, and following its relatively effective response to the COVID-19 health and economic crisis, the Government could easily secure approval for such reforms in parliament and without significant popular resistance. Indeed, government action against some high-level political corruption cases would increase its popularity. Nevertheless, the political costs associated with such measures, with, for example, public sector officials losing the capacity to reward loyal supporters with procurement contracts or employment, may continue to dissuade the political elite from pursuing the required reforms, and ultimately slow Serbia’s economic recovery.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Ineffective Incentives</heading>
          <p>Attracting foreign investors is another priority. In a bid to replicate the successful economic growth model used by other Central and Eastern European states, which have benefited greatly from inflows of foreign capital over the past two decades, Serbian governments since 2000 have sought to attract foreign investors. In addition to economic and institutional reforms, the Government has intervened in the tax and regulatory frameworks to make them more competitive and appealing to investors.</p>
          <p>Several such interventions have had positive effects. For instance, changes to streamline business regulations to accelerate setting up businesses, obtaining necessary permits and paying taxes have reduced the bureaucratic burden and costs, both for domestic businesses and for potential foreign investors. However, regulatory changes alone rarely lead to significant increases in foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows. Additional investment incentives have become a common tool that governments use to persuade foreign investors to bring their capital. Most governments in South-Eastern Europe have adopted similar approaches, competing to attract investors with low and flat corporate tax rates, tax relief and tax `holidays’, sector-specific incentives (usually in the high-skill, high-technology sectors), and free or very cheap land and facilities.</p>
          <p>The effect of such incentives is less clear. While the volume of foreign investment in the country (and the region) seems to be increasing, the impact on the local economies is not as positive as expected. Although unemployment has declined, the effect on salaries is more modest. Most foreign companies do not seem to be paying significantly higher salaries to local workers, regardless of their skill levels. Work conditions have been slow to improve, and have even led to labour strikes in some foreign companies (in 2017, for example, workers went on strike at Italian car manufacturing company Fiat, which has provided the largest foreign investment in Serbia since 2012).</p>
          <p>In addition, the contribution to the state budget resulting from foreign investment is limited. When the investment incentives and tax and benefit contribution breaks are taken into account, the overall balance is potentially minimal. Some local analysts have even claimed that the Government is incurring losses with its investment incentives regime. Of course, the broader picture is more complex, and it is often difficult to quantify and measure the effects of keeping people in employment, building and upgrading their skills and helping local suppliers and partners stay in business. Yet, like other countries in the region, Serbia has struggled to attract high-skill and high-technology investment, with most foreign investment going into labour-intensive processing and manufacturing industries. How long such investment will continue to bring value to the economy before companies leave for a cheaper destination is subject to debate. However, transforming Serbia into a regional economic hub for innovation and research and development remains an unfulfilled goal. The continued reliance on foreign investment models from 30 years ago and the related failure to adapt the economy to investors’ evolving preferences, especially concerning ensuring green recovery and sustainable future growth, is likely to undermine Serbia’s economic recovery in coming years.</p>
          <p>Yet, the alternative seems even less appealing. Missing out on foreign investment is unlikely to benefit domestic businesses and the economy as a whole. In a small economy that seeks further to integrate into the EU’s large market, such an approach would be detrimental. The Government must continue to seek ways to offer value for investors choosing to come to Serbia. Being cheaper than the neighbouring markets is unlikely to be a sufficient argument in the longer term, especially if the Government intends to avoid a `race to the bottom’ with neighbouring states.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Geopolitical Factors</heading>
          <p>Most of the reforms and regulatory interventions discussed above coincided with a particularly unfavourable geopolitical context. Since 2012, the EU has been struggling fully to recover from the economic downturn triggered by the global financial crisis that commenced in 2008. Therefore, European investors have been slower to invest in emerging markets on the EU periphery. Unlike the race to invest in the new EU member states in the 2000s, the countries of the Western Balkans, including Serbia, have seen much more restrained investor interest. This has dampened efforts to privatize state-owned companies, a project that in Serbia started relatively late, only after 2000. Unlike privatization in other former socialist economies in the region, Serbia did not launch a major privatization plan in the early 1990s, when large Western investors were looking for opportunities in the region. During the 2000s investor interest was lower and the value of state-owned capacities had further reduced as a result of underinvestment and neglect in the 1990s.</p>
          <p>Moreover, the economic difficulties in the EU economies since 2008, the largest trading partners to countries of the Western Balkans region, have resulted in a reduction in trade and exports with EU states, placing additional downward pressures on the Serbian economy. At a time when Serbian governments were seeking to open the country to investment and trade, after a decade of sanctions and trade embargoes, the economic performance of the EU faltered. Europe’s economic woes have pushed Serbian governments to look elsewhere for investment and to invest more in diplomatic and trade relations with other countries. Most notably, since the SNS took office in 2012, relations with the People’s Republic of China and the countries of the Persian (Arabian) gulf have improved and intensified, while Serbia has also maintained links with its traditional allies, such as Russia.</p>
          <p>That Serbia is not very closely aligned with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and has maintained good diplomatic relations with countries beyond the West has helped it to spread a broader network of economic diplomacy than most other countries of the Balkans. For example, Serbia was better placed to benefit from growing Chinese interest in the region, having maintained close diplomatic ties with China. Indeed, the Government secured Chinese investment and support for restructuring some of the loss-making state-owned capacities in the mining and steel sectors, which had repeatedly failed to attract investor interest. This is in addition to Chinese investment in transport infrastructure projects, such as a high-speed railway project to connect Belgrade with the Hungarian capital, Budapest, and the construction of the Ada Bridge across the Sava river in Belgrade. During 2020 the benefits of Serbia’s diversified foreign policy became even more evident when the Government secured millions of COVID-19 vaccine doses from Chinese, Russian and Western producers, while the rest of the region relied on the EU and the World Health Organization’s international COVAX Facility, which initially failed to deliver vaccines as pledged.</p>
          <p>While overall this diversified approach to foreign policy has served Serbia well, its position between the West, and Russia and China is likely to become less sustainable as a result of the growing gap between the two sides. Serbia may need to choose a side, especially in view of the increasing Western sanctions imposed against Russia, since its future relationship with the EU may depend on alignment with EU’s foreign policy. Should the Government choose to comply with EU’s sanctions, it will be an economically costly decision in the short term. Securing alternative supplies of oil and natural gas and investing in the necessary infrastructure to reduce energy dependence on Russia are likely to be both expensive and politically controversial. Nevertheless, in the short term, keeping a balanced position between Russia and the EU has proven beneficial for Serbia, as 2022 was a record year for FDI inflows, which amounted to around €4,000m., driven largely by capital flight from Russia and Ukraine.</p>
          <p>Despite strong trade relations with China, its economic recovery seems to be slower than anticipated, even after the lifting of pandemic lockdowns. As a result, Western investment will continue to constitute the vast majority of FDI in Serbia in the short term. Furthermore, Serbia’s geography is such that its economy will remain closest to the EU’s large single market, and this relationship is only likely to become closer as Serbia progresses further towards EU membership, as a result of the growing regulatory and legal alignment with EU standards, regardless of how successful the Government is in attracting foreign investment from elsewhere.</p>
          <p>At the same time, moves towards EU accession will continue to support government efforts to tackle the structural problems in the Serbian economy. EU pre-accession funds will provide support for improving infrastructure in transport, telecommunications and energy, as well as facilitating the liberalization of trade across the Western Balkans, upgrading the skills of workers and improving the mobility of young people. Although Serbia is unlikely to become a full EU member until at least 2025 (and probably later), the positive effects of being a candidate state will persist.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section id="RS.13727765481" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Future Prospects</heading>
          <p>Since 2012 SNS and government officials have built a narrative of impending economic success in Serbia, contingent only on the last set of proposed reforms. The President and former Prime Minister, Vučić, often comments in public on the progress made under his governance in transforming the Serbian economy into one of the better performing markets in the region. In March 2021 he announced plans to open two vaccine production facilities, to manufacture the Chinese- and Russian-developed vaccines. Despite the public health emergency, the President and Government continued to place economic performance and foreign investment at the heart of their policies. Similarly, in response to EU calls for Serbia to join the ban on imports of Russian oil, Vučić in May 2022 justified his position not to align with the EU on the measure, due to the adverse economic impact that such a decision would have on Serbia’s economy.</p>
          <p>For better or for worse, the economy has become the main element on which the Government’s performance is assessed. As a result, economic growth is a priority, both for the Government and for the President, and they are unlikely to abandon efforts to strengthen growth for alternative projects that would boost their political capital and raise their popularity.</p>
          <p>However, the Government faces continuous obstacles to achieving its aims. Some, such as the reluctance fully to reform public administration, seem to be self-imposed. Others are more structural and not strictly within government control. The long-term effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, the geopolitical context and the external economic environment will continue to challenge government plans to stimulate economic growth and boost FDI inflows. None the less, as the largest market in the Western Balkans region, and a well-advanced candidate for EU membership, Serbia will retain significant potential for economic growth and will remain attractive for investors and businesses seeking to increase their presence in South-Eastern Europe.</p>
     </gen-section>
</country-survey>