<?xml version="1.0"?>
<bibl-ref bibl-dtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" id="SL52192" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="52191" slsdocid="51082" slsdocty="bibl-section bibl-dtd"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
          
          <bibl-section id="AL.DIR.419" id-root="al.dir" iso="al" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="BIBL-REF" usage="casee">
               <heading>Bibliography</heading>
               <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Albania</alt-heading>
               <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Bibliography</alt-heading>
               <bibl-list>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Abrahams, F. 
          <i>Modern Albania: From Dictatorship to Democracy in Europe</i>
          . New York, New York University Press, 2015.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Arsovka J. 
          <i>Decoding Albanian Organized Crime: Culture, Politics, and Globalization</i>
          . Oakland, CA, University of California Press, 2015.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Biberaj, E. 
          <i>Albania and China: A Study of an Unequal Alliance</i>
          . Boulder, CO, Westview Press, 1986.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Bido, A. 
          <i>The Albanian Orthodox Church: A Political History, 1878-1945</i>
          . Abingdon, Routledge, 2022.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          De Waal, C. 
          <i>Albania: Portrait of a Country in Transition</i>
          . London, I. B. Tauris, 2013.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Dukagjini, L., Gjecov, S. and Fox, L. (Eds). 
          <i>The Code of Lekë Dukagjini</i>
          . New York, Gjonlekaj Publishing, 1989.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Elsie, R. 
          <i>Historical Dictionary of Albania</i>
          . Lanham, MD, Scarecrow Press, 2010.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
                         <i>The Tribes of Albania: History, Society and Culture</i>
          . London, I. B. Tauris, 2015.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Fevziu, B. 
          <i>Enver Hoxha: The Iron Fist of Albania</i>
          . London, I. B. Tauris, 2016.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Fischer, B. and Schmitt, O. J. 
          <i>A Concise History of Albania</i>
           (Cambridge Concise Histories). Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 2022.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Gjevori, E. 
          <i>Democratisation and Institutional Reform in Albania (New Perspectives on South-East Europe)</i>
          . London, Palgrave Macmillan, 2018.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Guy, N. 
          <i>Birth of Albania: Ethnic Nationalism, The Great Powers of World War I and the Emergence of Albanian Independence</i>
          . London, I. B. Tauris, 2012.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Jacques, E.&#8201;E. 
          <i>The Albanians: An Ethnic History from Prehistoric Times to the Present</i>
          . Jefferson, NC, McFarland and Co, 1995.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Kalemaj, I. 
          <i>Contested Borders: Territorialization, National Identity and `Imagined Geographies’ in Albania</i>
          . Oxford, Peter Lang, 2014.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Kaltousinis, T. 
          <i>The Democratization of Albania</i>
          . Basingstoke, Palgrave Macmillan, 2010.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Kola, P. 
          <i>The Search for Greater Albania</i>
          . London, C. Hurst and Co, 2003.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Lubonja, F. T. 
          <i>Second Sentence: Inside the Albanian Gulag</i>
          . London, I. B. Tauris, 2009.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Lukas, P. 
          <i>The OSS in World War II Albania: Covert Operations and Collaboration with Communist Partisans.</i>
           Jefferson, NC, McFarland and Co, 2007.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Malcolm, N. 
          <i>Rebels, Believers, Survivors: Studies in the History of the Albanians</i>
          . Oxford, Oxford University Press, 2020.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Mëhilli, E. 
          <i>From Stalin to Mao: Albania and the Socialist World</i>
          . Ithaca, NY, Cornell University Press, 2017.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Meta, B. 
          <i>Albania and Greece 1949-1990: The Elusive Peace</i>
          . Tirana, Academy of Sciences of Albania, 2007.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Pearson, O. 
          <i>Albania in the Twentieth Century: A History, Vol. 1: Albania and King Zog: Independence, Republic and Monarchy, 1908-1939</i>
          . London, I. B. Tauris, 2004.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
                         <i>Albania in the Twentieth Century: A History, Vol. 2: Albania in Occupation and War: From Fascism to Communism, 1940-1945</i>
          . London, I. B. Tauris, 2005.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
                         <i>Albania in the Twentieth Century: A History, Vol. 3: Albania in Dictatorship and Democracy: 1945-1999</i>
          . London, I. B. Tauris, 2006.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Pettifer, J. (Ed.) 
          <i>Albania and the Balkans: Essays in Honour of Sir Reginald Hibbert</i>
          . Cornwall, Elbow Publishing, 2013.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Pipa, A. 
          <i>Albanian Stalinism</i>
          . East European Monographs. New York, Columbia University Press, 1990.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Pritchett Post, S.&#160;E. 
          <i>Women in Modern Albania</i>
          . Jefferson, NC, McFarland and Co, 1998.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Rama, S. A. 
          <i>The End of Communist Rule in Albania: Political Change and The Role of The Student Movement</i>
          . Abingdon, Routledge, 2019.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Rejmer, M. 
          <i>Mud Sweeter than Honey: Voices of Communist Albania</i>
          . London, MacLehose Press, 2022.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Tarifa, F. 
          <i>Vengeance is Mine: Justice Albanian Style</i>
          . Chapel Hill, NC, Globic Press, 2008.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Tochka, N. 
          <i>Audible States: Socialist Politics and Popular Music in Albania</i>
          . Oxford, Oxford University Press, 2017.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Vickers, M. 
          <i>The Albanians: A Modern History</i>
          . London, I. B. Tauris, 2014.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Watkins, J. 
          <i>Enver Hoxha’s Long Shadow: Travels in Albania</i>
          . Oxford, Signal, 2023.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Winnifrith, T.&#8201;J. 
          <i>Badlands-Borderland: A History of Southern Albania/Northern Epirus</i>
          . London, Duckworth Publishers, 2003.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
                         <i>Tribes and Brigands in the Balkans: A History of Northern Albania.</i>
           London, I.&#8201;B. Tauris, 2008.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Ypi, L. 
          <i>Free: Coming of Age at the End of History</i>
          . London, Allen Lane, 2021.
        </bibl-entry>
               </bibl-list>
          </bibl-section>
     </bibl-ref>
