<?xml version="1.0"?>
<country-survey id="CZ.EC" id-root="cz" iso="cz" original-filename="czeecon.rtf" print-style="PGWIDTH" sect-type="economy" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>Economy</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">The Czech Republic (Czechia)</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Economy</alt-heading>
     <author-group>
          <primary-authors>
               <person-name>
                    <forename>Lenka</forename>
                    <surname>Filipová</surname>
               </person-name>
       and 
      <person-name>
                    <forename>Mariola </forename>
                    <surname>Pytliková</surname>
               </person-name>
          </primary-authors>
     </author-group>
     <p>Assistant Professor, Faculty of Economics, VŠB Technical University of Ostrava, Czech Republic, and Assistant Professor, Economics Institute of the Czech Academy of Sciences (CERGE-EI), Prague, Czech Republic.</p>
     <gen-section id="CZ.SS.15319905151" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Macroeconomic Performance</heading>
          <p>Since the Czech Republic’s entry to the European Union (EU) in 2004, the country’s economy has experienced an increasing trend in convergence towards its Western counterparts. After the global financial and economic crisis during 2008-13, the Czech economy started to recover quickly, and in 2021 gross domestic product (GDP) per head, measured in purchasing-power parity terms (PPP), reached 93% of the EU average. In fact, the Czech Republic surpassed Southern European countries such as Spain and Italy in GDP per capita in terms of PPP. Since 2015 the Czech Republic has demonstrated one of the best economic performances among the EU countries, characterized by strong economic growth, low unemployment rates, the expansion of exports and a decline in government debt. The country’s GDP grew by 4.4% in 2017, 2.8% in 2018 and 2.6% in 2019. This changed, however, with the global impact of COVID-19 in early 2020. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic and a number of ensuing lockdowns, GDP declined sharply, by 5.8% in 2020. Economic activity decreased, mainly as a result of the restrictions on mobility and private consumption. These circumstances led to a rise in the household savings rate to an unprecedented level of 22%. The economy’s high dependence on external demand, which fell sharply, also contributed to the decline in economic activity. The situation was particularly damaging for the automotive industry, which was already under pressure as a result of regulatory changes (carbon dioxide emission targets for new cars).</p>
          <p>An expansionary fiscal and monetary policy played an important role during the pandemic crisis in minimizing the decline in economic activity. This included the introduction of an extensive package of fiscal measures to support household incomes and the liquidity of companies. According to the Czech Ministry of Finance, direct budget support amounted to 4.4% of GDP and liquidity support to companies 16% of GDP in 2020. Due to the fiscal stimulus, GDP increased by 3.3% in 2021, with the renewed growth supported by higher domestic consumption and capital expenditure. On the negative side, GDP growth was hampered by weak foreign demand, which was related to the disruption of global supply chains and the consequent slowdown of domestic export-orientated industrial production. Despite the growth, the domestic economy remained behind 2019 levels in real terms. Meanwhile, Czech companies faced a growing increase in production costs, which was due to significant problems in global supply chains, a sharp increase in the prices of imported inputs, and rising energy and food prices. The price level as measured by the GDP deflator increased by 4.1% in 2021.</p>
          <p>The Russian Federation’s invasion of Ukraine on 24 February 2022, together with resulting wide-ranging sanctions imposed by the EU against Russia, have disrupted trade further, in particular exports from the region of commodities such as oil, gas, metals and foodstuffs, and raised inflation to levels not seen for a long time. Thus, amid continuing strong inflationary pressures, the rise in consumer prices reached a high of 18% year-on-year in September. The Czech National Bank (CNB) gradually increased interest rates to 7% in June, with a promise to achieve a reduction in the inflation rate to the target level of 2% by the first half of 2024. It was anticipated that weakening global inflationary pressures would also contribute to the decline in inflation. According to forecasts by the CNB, the annual inflation rate was projected to slow to 11.2% in 2023, and then to drop further to 2.1%, near the targeted level, in 2024, assisted by a decrease in energy costs and related effects.</p>
          <p>Nevertheless, the significant surge in prices has led to a substantial decrease in real incomes, resulting in a notable decline in household consumption. The decline in both domestic and foreign demand, coupled with the increases in interest rates, has contributed to a fall in corporate investment. As a result of the decline in household purchasing power and corporate investment, GDP growth slowed to 2.5% in 2022 and, according to the CNB, was expected to drop further to around 0.5% in 2023. In addition to the declining household consumption and corporate investment, a reduction in the growth of the global economy also contributed to the economic slowdown. Based on forecasts by the CNB and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), GDP growth was expected to experience a resurgence in 2024, reaching a rate of 2.4%.</p>
          <p>In the labour market, the strong expansion of the Czech economy in the years before the COVID-19 pandemic was accompanied by low unemployment rates, of less than 3%, from 2017. According to the OECD, the unemployment rate fell to 2% in 2019 (compared with the EU average of 7% in that year), the lowest recorded rate in the EU and the OECD. Furthermore, the long-term unemployment rate has also reached historically low levels, of just 0.6% in 2019 (in comparison with the EU average of 2.5%). Owing to the pandemic, the unemployment rate increased slowly to 2.6% in 2020 and to 2.8% in 2021. In 2022 the unemployment rate declined slightly to 2.3%, remaining the lowest rate in the EU, even though the Czech Republic experienced an unprecedented influx of Ukrainian refugees, with the majority of them entering the labour market. Due to the unfavourable economic conditions in 2023, however, the unemployment rate was projected to rise slightly to 2.8%.</p>
          <p>The war in Ukraine from February 2022 caused a massive humanitarian crisis, linked with large-scale refugee flows. According to United Nations (UN) data, by January 2023 the number of Ukrainian refugees in the Czech Republic was equivalent to 4.3% of the population, the highest share of Ukrainian refugees per capita among all host countries . The Government adopted a number of measures to help the smooth integration of the refugees into the Czech labour market and society; however, more effective integration measures, including language support for both children and adults, as well as recognition of education from abroad, are needed.</p>
          <p>During the pandemic fiscal measures resulted in a substantial increase in the state budget deficit. The deficit reached 6.4% of GDP in 2020 and rose further to 6.9% in 2021. In 2022 the budget deficit decreased to 3.6% of GDP, due to the end of the pandemic-related measures. However, the Government adopted several discretionary measures in 2022 to assist households and businesses in coping with higher energy costs. These included income support for households and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), an energy price ceiling and a temporary reduction in excise tax on fuels. These steps were partly financed by a newly introduced tax on excessive profits of energy producers, energy traders and banks. The tax rate was set at 60% and applied to profits exceeding 20% of the average profit during 2019-21 (to be collected in 2023-25). The rise in energy prices was expected to slow in 2023, which would enable the government measures to be lifted. Furthermore, from 2024 public finances were to receive support for investments through the new programming period of EU funds.</p>
          <p>Despite being consistently recognized as the country with the lowest inequality and risk of poverty rates in the EU and the OECD, the Czech Republic faces challenges related to population ageing and sustainable growth. It has a number of structural advantages in the social sector, such as a universal social protection system that successfully serves as a temporary `safety net’, low overall income inequality in international terms, solid public education and health care systems, and a system of affordable and effective public transportation. However, the population in the Czech Republic is ageing faster than in other countries in Central and Eastern Europe, which leaves the sustainability of the pension system under pressure. Based on projections, it is anticipated that the current system could result in public debt surpassing 55% of GDP by 2028 and reaching 296% of GDP in 2072. Pension reform is one of the priorities of the current Government. Other government priorities include investing in renewable energy sources, promoting energy efficiency, transitioning to electric vehicle production and undertaking other initiatives to drive the green transformation. The focus on the green transformation also involves a shift in the qualification structure of the workforce. The lack of skilled labour in green and digital sectors could slow down the spread of innovation and consequently the transition. Other important long-term priorities focus around the labour market: reducing gender disparities, which are among the highest in the EU; supporting affordable and accessible child care services; and facilitating labour migration and the integration of foreign workers (including, most recently, managing the refugee flow from Ukraine and successfully integrating a large number of Ukrainian refugees into the Czech labour market and society). These priorities were included in the National Recovery Plan, under which the Czech Republic was to receive funds from the EU Recovery and Resilience Facility totalling up to €7,000m.</p>
          <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
               <heading>Improving the Consolidation of Public Finances</heading>
               <p>In recent years, the Czech Republic has recorded significant increases in the state budget deficit, which were reflected in debt growth. In an effort to halt this trend, the Government introduced a Recovery Package in May 2023, which was intended to reduce the state budget deficit in 2024-25. The state budget deficit exceeded 5% of GDP in 2020 and 2021. In 2022 the deficit declined to 3.6% of GDP and the Government expected that it would be reduced to below 2% of GDP after the introduction of the Recovery Package. As part of the consolidation of the state budget, the Government anticipated more savings on the expenditure side than tax increases on the revenue side. Significant savings were to be made on the state’s operating and wage expenses and non-investment subsidies. The tax system was to be fundamentally simplified by abolishing 22 tax exemptions and unifying value-added tax (VAT) rates to two of the current three. There were plans to increase taxes on tobacco, alcohol and other items that burden the health sector and create long-term costs for society as a whole. There was also to be an increase in real estate tax from its current very low level; the share of real estate tax collection in GDP is 0.2%, ranking the Czech Republic 36th out of 37 OECD countries. An increase in the corporate tax rate, which in the Czech Republic is 19%, below the EU average, was also planned. In addition, the package envisaged a reduction in VAT on food, housing and medical products from 15% to 12%.</p>
               <p>The public finance recovery plan also included a proposal for pension reform to ensure the sustainability of the pension system for decades to come. The current pension system is fully continuous, meaning that working people who contribute to the pension system, whether as employees or self-employed, finance the pensions of their fellow citizens of retirement age. However, the average life expectancy of the population is rising, while the fertility rate remains well below the replacement rate of 2.1 (see below). As a result, the number of people of retirement age who need benefit from the system is growing and will continue to grow. This situation is unsustainable in the long term. The reform envisaged that the retirement age would be adjusted beyond the current age of 65 from 2031, in line with the increase in life expectancy to maintain the time spent in retirement, which is currently around 21.5 years according to OECD statistics. The parameters for calculating new pensions were also to be adjusted to ensure that average new pensions do not grow faster than the average wage. A reduction in the maximum period of early retirement from the current five to three years was also proposed. One of the aims of the reform was also to ensure higher pensions for the self-employed. Due to traditional gender roles in the Czech Republic, women have significantly lower wages than men, which is reflected in lower pensions. Divorced and widowed senior women, in particular, often find themselves in poverty in old age. The pension reform provided for the sharing of pension rights for spouses, allowing spouses to agree that their social security contributions would be counted together for the duration of their marriage.</p>
          </gen-section>
          <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
               <heading>Ageing and Labour Shortages</heading>
               <p>The ageing workforce and a shortage of workers remain among the obstacles to further economic growth. Despite the slight rise in the unemployment rate, due to the unfavourable economic growth and the influx of Ukrainian refugees on the Czech labour market, it continues to be the lowest in the EU and among developed countries, while the number of unfilled jobs is very high, totalling 284,530 positions at May 2023. These labour market imbalances, together with significant inflation, exerted strong pressure on wage growth. The average monthly wage, in nominal terms, rose by 4.7% in 2021 and by 6.5% in 2022, reaching 40,252 koruna (approximately €1,700). According to CNB forecasts, the average wage was expected to rise by 8.8% and 8.0% in 2023 and 2024, respectively.</p>
               <p>This growth was further reinforced by large increases in the minimum wage—from 8,000 koruna per month in 2013 to 17,300 koruna (around €730) in 2023, when the minimum wage was equivalent to around 43% of the national average wage. The rise in minimum wage levels shifted wage distribution upwards, particularly in the public sector. However, according to a report by the Czech Institute for Democracy and Economic Analysis (IDEA), it did not lead to an increase in unemployment. The overall growth in wages, together with strengthening of the Czech koruna, helped Czech wage levels and living standards to converge towards those of other developed countries, although strong further wage growth could negatively affect the competitiveness of companies in the long term, should they fail to innovate and to focus on products and services with high value added.</p>
               <p>Demographic forecasts suggest further challenges in the labour market in the future, as the working-age population is projected to decline, with a negative impact on labour supply and long-term economic growth. One of the reasons for this is a very low fertility rate since the 1990s, and increases in life expectancy. According to Eurostat, the fertility rate increased from 1.15 children per woman in 2000 (one of the lowest rates in the world) to 1.7 in 2022, which, though above the EU average of 1.5, is still far from the replacement rate of 2.1 (the average number of live births per woman required to keep the population size constant in the absence of migration). According to official demographic projections, people aged over 65 will account for 32% of the population by 2050 (35% of women and 30% of men), whereas this age-group comprised only 18% of the population in 2015.</p>
               <p>Although the Czech working-age population has been declining since 2009, the size of the labour force has remained almost constant, as a result of significant increases in participation rates. Older workers have contributed most to the labour force growth, owing to a rise in the retirement age. Despite this, the participation rate of older workers remains substantially lower than in some other EU countries, but above the EU average: in 2019 the participation rate for men aged 55-64 years in the labour force of the Czech Republic was 68%, compared with the EU maximum of 82% (in Sweden) and EU average of 63%; the participation of women aged 55-64 years in the Czech Republic was 60%, compared with the EU maximum of 79% (Sweden) and EU average of 56%. </p>
               <p>A further source of increase in the labour force has been the significant inflow of Ukrainian refugees, who, due to efforts to integrate foreign workers, entered the Czech labour market relatively smoothly. From the onset of the conflict in February 2022 to the end of April 2023 approximately 238,000 Ukrainians under temporary protection have secured employment opportunities on the Czech labour market.</p>
               <p>Another area of concern is with regard to prime age (25-54-year-old) women, the labour force participation rate for whom was 72% in 2020, compared with an EU average of 82%, according to Eurostat. Many analysts have provided evidence that better access to child care, greater flexibility in working patterns and equality in wages between men and women are associated with higher levels of female participation in the labour market. Several academic studies have identified the link between the gender employment gap in the Czech Republic, the career penalty associated with maternity, the low usage of flexible forms of work and the low availability of child care provision. Although in recent years there have been efforts to improve the situation in terms of increasing places for children in kindergartens as well as in creches, the child care capacity for children below the age of three years is still far from sufficient. This is one of the important factors that hinders the return of women to the labour market, as women are most likely to take parental leave and bear the economic cost of raising children in the Czech Republic. The disruption in women’s careers due to motherhood is reinforced by the relatively lengthy and generous maternity and parental leave scheme (permitting between two and three years of paid parental leave), which, together with the absence of child care facilities, effectively excludes Czech mothers from the labour market. The long leave from work negatively affects women’s work experience and accumulation of their human capital, resulting in higher unemployment among women and larger gender pay gaps. In fact, the Czech Republic has one of the highest gender pay gaps in Europe. The observed wage gap is higher in the private sector, in financial services and in managerial and professional occupations (according to Eurostat). On the basis of Statistics on Income and Living Conditions (SILC) data, it has been argued that the wage gap between men and women increases with each additional child in the family. The difference in monthly median wages between men and women without children is around 15%, increasing to around 20% for one child and to 36% for three children. Long periods of maternity and parental leave are also costly for employers, in particular because women comprise an important and growing part of the highly educated section of the labour force.</p>
               <p>Statistics from the Czech Statistical Office indicate that the economic effects of the COVID-19 crisis in the Czech Republic have been more severe for women than men. This is due to two reasons: women have been disproportionately employed in sectors severely affected by the lockdown; and women have carried out more of the additional child care that has resulted from the closures of schools and child care facilities, following the traditional family model. On that basis, more women than men lost their jobs and, more importantly, they disappeared from the labour market more often than men when the strict lockdown ended after the first wave of the pandemic. This is likely to deepen the already large gender imbalances in the Czech labour market. Furthermore, the recent flow of Ukrainian refugees, primarily comprising women with children and the elderly, put further pressures on the limited child care and school facilities.</p>
               <p>Population ageing, necessitating rises in pensions, health and care expenditure, poses a further problem in terms of long-term fiscal sustainability. Projections indicate that the old-age dependency ratio will rise from 30% in 2019 to 54% in 2060, similar to the EU-27 average. Without reforms, this will place a significant burden on the sustainability of the current welfare system.</p>
               <p>Although the pandemic decreased economic activity, in the long term demographic prospects will reopen the problem of labour shortages. One possibility for increasing the labour supply could be to bring marginal groups, such as the young, older workers and mothers of young children, more effectively to the labour market, as employment rates for these groups demonstrate significant gaps compared with those of prime age men. In addition, the successful integration of Ukrainian refugees into the labour market and society may also help to alleviate future population ageing problems.</p>
          </gen-section>
          <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
               <heading>Labour Productivity</heading>
               <p>Another principal problem in bringing about a more speedy convergence of the Czech economy towards OECD and eurozone averages is a slowdown in total factor and labour productivity. This is also the reason that the wages of Czech employees do not reach the level of average earnings in Germany or Austria, where companies use better technologies to produce products with higher margins. On the other hand, real wages have grown faster than labour productivity over the last 30 years. Workers today have almost 2.5 times higher real wages than 30 years ago, while Czech labour productivity has only increased by 84.6% in real terms.</p>
               <p>Post-crisis productivity growth in the Czech Republic was below the average of neighbouring economies and has been very volatile. For instance, labour productivity rose by 2.1% in 2019, but was only 0.3% in 2020. Measured by GDP per hour worked, in 2020 labour productivity in the Czech Republic reached US $48.9, compared with an EU average of $63.0 and an average in the euro area of $69.3. However, the 1,753 average annual working hours per worker in the Czech Republic in 2021 exceeded the EU and OECD averages of, respectively, 1,566 and 1,716 hours per worker. Finally, the comparably high employment and low unemployment rates are also fundamental to the conservative Czech labour market.</p>
               <p>Labour productivity growth in the Czech Republic has been concentrated in manufacturing. The sector has the largest share not only of value added but also of employment, and has experienced the fastest growth in labour productivity over the past 20 years. Nevertheless, the share of the services sector in employment has increased and the share of agriculture has declined significantly, with a positive impact on aggregate labour productivity. The services sector has been the main source of economic growth for the last two years, with information and communications, and finance and banking the most important sub-sectors. However, despite some progress, according to the IMF, the sectoral labour productivity gaps with leading neighbouring economies remain large.</p>
               <p>Until 2008 productivity growth was mainly driven by integration into the global economy through foreign direct investment (FDI) and the international linkages of firms. However, local Czech firms, which represent an important part of the supply chain and source of employment, have been slow in the adoption of more sophisticated technologies, restricting their digital transformation and labour productivity. Policy measures focused on these firms, and on bringing about an improved data infrastructure, could help to increase overall aggregate productivity. As part of the stimulus adopted in response to the pandemic, the Czech Government approved the National Plan for the Development of Very High Capacity Networks (VHCN) in 2021, which defined the strategic approach of the Czech Republic to the construction of such networks. Through targeted support from public funds, the focus was to be on backhaul connections and access networks. The Czech Republic has already developed an optical infrastructure network at the district city level.</p>
          </gen-section>
          <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
               <heading>Need for Improved Innovation Performance</heading>
               <p>Labour productivity growth can be achieved by companies investing in more productive machines, and focusing on innovation and production with high value added. This requires human capital. Human resources in the science and technology sectors have increased significantly in the last two decades. The number of new doctoral graduates per 1,000 of the population aged 25-34 years increased from 0.4 in 2000 to 1.2 in 2018, but remains substantially lower than in some other European countries, notably Germany (2.1), and Denmark and the UK (both 2.0). Those with tertiary education and employment in science and technology in the Czech Republic comprised 42.0% of the economically active population in 2021, compared with an EU average of 48.6%.</p>
               <p>Although R&amp;D spending has been increasing since 2003 and reached 2% of GDP in 2021, innovation performance is rather moderate for a country with a large manufacturing sector. According to the European Innovation Scoreboard, which measures innovation in Europe according to a variety of different indicators, the Czech Republic had a below average level (83.9%) of innovation performance relative to the EU in 2021. One of the reasons for this is that Czech companies tend to be concentrated in the lower value-added sectors of the economy that attract lower R&amp;D Moderate innovation intensity is also apparent in SMEs and the services sector. A major share of R&amp;D investment comes from business investment from abroad.</p>
               <p>In 2019 the Government introduced a new innovation strategy, Country for the Future, with nine objectives: funding and evaluation of R&amp;D polytechnic education; support of start-ups and spin-offs; innovation and excellence centres; digitalization; investments with higher value added; patents; infrastructure and logistics; and marketing. Based on this strategy, the National Research, Development and Innovation Policy of the Czech Republic 2021+ was created. The aim was to increase R&amp;D spending to 2.5% of GDP in 2025 and to 3.0% of GDP in 2030, i.e. an increase of 0.1 percentage points each year, of which the 1% contribution from public and business sources was to rise to 1.5% in 2025 and to 2.0% in 2030; and to achieve R&amp;D excellence by 2030 according to European Research Council standards.</p>
          </gen-section>
          <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
               <heading>The Low Efficiency of Public Administration</heading>
               <p>Start-up businesses and SMEs often play a substantial role in the introduction of advances in products and processes, and thus are conducive to productivity growth and job creation. Support for SMEs is particularly important in the Czech Republic, where they comprise a large proportion of firms. However, compared with other OECD countries, entry and exit administrative procedures are excessive, particularly for start-ups and SMEs. It has been calculated that a decrease in the cost of closing a firm to the level of that found in Finland, which is regarded as representing best practice, would increase labour productivity in the Czech Republic by 3.2%. Although the Czech Government emphasized the importance and support for innovative start-ups in its strategy for innovation, economic measures during the COVID-19 pandemic were not sufficiently focused on start-ups. Statistics for the Czech Republic (and for the USA) demonstrated that a short-term decline in the number and performance of new firms has far-reaching and long-term effects on employment growth and aggregate demand. The World Bank’s annual Doing Business indicators showed a high regulatory burden for start-ups and SMEs in the Czech Republic, with a negative impact on entrepreneurship and investment. For example, the procedure for starting a business was more complicated and time-consuming than in most other OECD countries; enforcing contracts took longer and was more costly for businesses than on average in the OECD; and the process for obtaining construction permits was one of the slowest in the OECD.</p>
               <p>The lower quality of public administration is connected with the high degree of territorial fragmentation of sub-national government in the Czech Republic. In particular, small municipalities are less capable of providing high-quality services, while having a higher cost of administration per capita than larger municipalities. Successful efforts to combat corruption in public sector could also help to increase the effectiveness of public administration and to strengthen economic growth. OECD indicators of control and perceived risk of corruption in the public sector rank the Czech Republic the sixth-worst among OECD member countries.</p>
               <p>To improve the performance of public administration, a strategy was created within the National Recovery Plan. As part of the digitization of the Czech Republic, `data boxes’, an electronic information system with a maximum level of protection, have been created to facilitate communication with the authorities. From January 2023 the data boxes were mandatory for employers and self-employed. </p>
          </gen-section>
          <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
               <heading>The Labour Market: A Skill Mismatch</heading>
               <p>The shift in the Czech labour market from medium-skilled towards high-skilled jobs has been accompanied by a skill mismatch. There are plenty of vacancies for the highly skilled, yet insufficient suitably qualified candidates to occupy them; both domestically and in the global context there is intensive competition for talent. In that respect, the demand for highly-skilled technically educated adults can be expected to increase. Regarding the skill composition of the workforce and possible reserves to cover shortages, it is important to note that more than one-half of university graduates are women.</p>
               <p>One possible means of meeting the shortages for high skilled labour would be to increase the educational level of the workforce, which is already well-educated by international standards. The average duration of schooling, at 12.7 years, is well above the EU and OECD average. The Czech Republic ranked second among OECD member countries (after Lithuania) for the share of the population aged between 25 and 64 years with at least an upper secondary education, 94.4% in 2022, compared with an EU-28 average of 84%, and had one of the lowest shares of the adult population with only a basic education. Focusing solely on tertiary education, about 17% of the adult population had at least a master’s degree, well above the EU and OECD averages. However, owing to a reduced focus on lower-tertiary degrees, such as bachelor’s degrees, two-year lower tertiary programmes, etc., in the past, particularly during the communist era, the overall share of the tertiary-educated working-age population in the Czech Republic remained low compared with other OECD countries. Specifically, in 2019 around 24.2% of the adult population had a tertiary education, while the EU and OECD averages were 33.2% and 36.9%, respectively. However, it is important to note that tertiary education enrolment has increased significantly in recent decades. In particular, the gross enrolment rate for tertiary education rose significantly, overtaking the EU and OECD averages. Thus, further continuous gains in tertiary education can be expected in the Czech Republic. However, some impact on educational outcomes from the COVID-19 crisis, and the consequent restrictions on schooling, might also be expected. In particular, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, schools were closed from mid-March 2020 to mid-May, and again for two months in the autumn term and three months in the first half of 2021. This new situation deepened existing inequalities in education in the Czech Republic, as some schools were more efficient than others in ensuring remote education.</p>
               <p>Apart from the number of educated individuals, the quality of education delivered holds significant importance. The education system of the Czech Republic has long been struggling with a high disparity in school performance. The selectivity of schools is considered to be an obstacle to better results in Czech education. Advantaged students have been found to outperform their disadvantaged peers by approximately three years of schooling. The issue of older teachers is also a concern, with 44% being over the age of 50. Finally, a large proportion of students leave their studies early in the first year of university studies, the most common reason being for work, followed by the low relevance of some fields of study for the labour market.</p>
               <p>Structural weaknesses also exist in the Czech labour market, such as the persistence of higher youth unemployment, regional disparities and gender inequalities. Youth unemployment could be resolved by the improvement of the educational and training systems to maintain a better matching of study fields and skills with the needs of the labour market. The involvement of employers in the design of curricula could be helpful in that respect. Regional disparities and problems are connected with lower employment opportunities, together with lower levels of worker mobility in less dynamic regions. Under the centrally planned economy women were largely restricted to lower paid jobs, and this effective segregation has in some regards intensified subsequently. Women are over-represented in the public sector, in particular in education, the health service and social work activities—sectors that are characterized by lower wages and productivity, according to government statistics.</p>
               <p>One of the solutions to ease the challenges related to the ageing of the population, as well as to strengthen innovation, would be to allow more immigration of highly skilled labour, both of foreign nationals and of Czechs currently working abroad. Although the country has transformed from a country of net emigration to one of net immigration, the population remains relatively culturally homogenous, given that the largest inflows of immigrants are from neighbouring states or from those with similar cultures. An effective points-based selective immigration system, together with a strengthened integration policy for new arrivals, the simplified recognition of foreign diplomas, and transparent information on immigration and working in the country, are essential for making the Czech Republic successful in the competition internationally for foreign expertise and workers.</p>
               <p>After the collapse of communism, emigration from the Czech Republic increased, and this was accentuated slightly following the country’s accession to the EU in 2004. During 1993-2015 around 390,000 Czech citizens—averaging around 18,000 annually—emigrated. However, due to dramatic changes in the numbers of immigrant arrivals, the Czech Republic moved from being a net emigration to a net immigration country around 2000. Immigration flows have been fluctuating, with strong increases in immigration during the years of economic expansion and smaller numbers of arrivals during economic crises. By 2021 there were almost 659,000 foreign nationals resident in the Czech Republic, equivalent to 6.2% of the population, compared with only 210,000 in 2000. There was a substantial increase in the number of foreign nationals to 1,116,154 in 2022, in particular due to the enormous inflow of Ukrainian refugees to the Czech Republic following the Russian invasion of Ukraine in February. From the beginning of the war to April 2023 a total of 504,107 received asylum, making the Czech Republic one of the largest recipients of Ukrainian refugees per capita. Some 325,000 Ukrainian refugees were registered in the country in June, as around one-third had returned to Ukraine. Of those registered in the country as Ukrainian refugees, 68% were of working age, 65% were women and 28% children. Ukrainian refugees are entitled to social welfare payments and access to housing, medical treatment and schools. It seems so far that the smooth integration of Ukrainian refugees has been undertaken successfully, with approximately 100,000 of them being employed at April.</p>
               <p>Some of the Czech regions are more exposed to the recent refugee flow than others, with the capital city of Prague and neighbouring regions being particularly popular refugee destinations. This has consequently placed further pressures on the already strained housing market, child care and schooling institutions. The Government is providing an information system, which shows available facilities in other less exposed regions, in the hope that the refugee flow will become more evenly distributed. In addition, a special job portal with firms offering jobs to Ukrainian workers has been established. Further measures, such as increasing schooling and child care capacities, as well as strengthening housing availability in the regions most affected by refugees, efforts to counteract the possible exploitation of Ukrainian workers and intensive language courses to ensure better skill transferability, are essential.</p>
          </gen-section>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Sustainable Development</heading>
          <p>The 2018 OECD Environmental Performance Review of the Czech Republic found that the country was performing well in relation to a number of Sustainable Development Goals, such as poverty, water and biodiversity. The OECD also positively assessed the country in its increasing use of environmental and regulatory impact evaluations, as well as strategic environmental assessments of policies, while recommending the greater use of cost-benefit analysis and ex-post-analysis of policy impacts and efficiency.</p>
          <p>However, the Czech Republic suffers from several weaknesses. The use of energy and carbon resources remains, on a per-head basis, among the highest in the OECD, and the population is exposed to high levels of air pollution, owing to the dependence on coal. The Government’s `Czech Republic 2030’ strategic framework, presented in 2017, defined priorities for implementing the 2030 Agenda, in which conversion to a low-carbon economy was among the principal proposals. The Czech Government announced the closure of all of its coal plants by 2033. In addition, the country’s largest utility, the majority state-owned České Energetické Závody Skupina (ČEZ—Czech Power Co Group), announced plans to shut most of its coal-fired power plants by 2030, cutting the proportion of coal in its production mix to 12.5% from 36% in 2020. However, carbon tax rates are still among the lowest in the OECD; taxes on diesel are lower than on gasoline, while taxes on natural gas, electricity, coal and other solid fuels are low. The migration of the population from rural areas and small cities to suburbs of Prague, Brno and Ostrava compounds the environmental challenges, as car traffic is increasing, bringing more air and noise pollution. As a result of these factors, emissions from road transport are rising and dependence on fossil fuels for residential housing is high. Both present primary sources of local air pollution, which is among the highest in the OECD. The strong increase in energy prices has supported incentives to save energy and invest in renewable sources but to a much lesser extent than in neighbouring countries. Moreover, low emission mobility options are underdeveloped. For this reason, the Czech Government approved a National Action Plan on Clean Mobility in April 2020 to construct charging stations for electric vehicles as part of the development of electromobility until 2030.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Conclusion</heading>
          <p>
      Since 2015 the Czech Republic has become one of the best economic performers among the EU countries, in terms of both economic growth and the low rate of unemployment. The Czech Republic is frequently listed as a country with one of the lowest rates of inequality and risk of poverty in the EU and the OECD. However, the impact of the Russian invasion of Ukraine has undermined the Czech Republic’s post-pandemic recovery and further interrupted its impressive catch-up with the GDP of developed countries seen in the previous two decades. Inflation has risen to high levels, and high interest rates set by the CNB in order to restore price stability have also adversely affected economic growth. Yet, the Czech labour market situation with its low unemployment and high employment rates remains strong. Nevertheless, labour and skills shortages continue to be one of the main obstacles to further economic growth. Making it possible for mothers to return to work earlier
      
      , as well as increasing the labour participation of older workers and of foreign nationals and refugees through their smoother integration, could ease the problem of labour market and skill shortages.
    </p>
          <p>Unfortunately, Czech companies started to face a growing increase in production costs, problems in global supply chains, a sharp increase in the prices of imported inputs, and rising energy and food prices in 2021. The Russian invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, together with the resulting sanctions against Russia, has further disrupted trade and caused elevated global inflation. Thus, strong inflationary pressures continued during 2022, and the rise in consumer prices reached a high of 18% year-on-year in September. Due to a decrease in the purchasing power of households and a decline in firm investment, the rate of GDP growth decelerated to 2.5% in 2022, and was projected to fall to only around 0.5% in 2023.</p>
          <p>In addition to the significantly higher interest rates introduced by the CNB, the turbulent developments also led to an increase in state budget deficits with a consequent rise in public debt. In response, the Government presented a Recovery Package in May 2023, which was intended to consolidate public finances. The consolidation was to comprise significant savings of state budget expenditures in the areas of subsidies and state administration, and a slight increase in some taxes. The recovery plan also incorporated pension reform, as the current pension system is deemed unsustainable due to the ageing population.</p>
          <p>
      Although the Czech working-age population has been declining since 2009, the labour force has remained almost constant, as a result of significant increases in participation rates. Older workers have contributed most to the labour force growth, owing to an increase in the retirement age, and it has also benefited from an influx of Ukrainian refugees and their entry into the Czech labour market. However, labour shortages remain 
      <!--repeating 1st para in section-->
      a significant problem. Another means to increase the labour force would be to support greater participation in the labour market by prime age women. The difference in rates of employment between men and women has been linked to the career penalty associated with maternity, the lack of flexible forms of work and the low availability of child care facilities. In an attempt to redress this situation, the Czech Government has supported measures to facilitate child care for pre-school children.
    </p>
          <p>The ageing of the population and a projected decrease in the labour force will require higher productivity growth in order to maintain convergence with developed economies and to preserve competitiveness. However, the Czech Republic has recorded a slowdown in total factor and labour productivity since 2008; over the past three decades labour productivity has grown modestly by 84.6%, in real terms. According to the IMF, there is low technology diffusion among Czech companies, which could present a major impediment to aggregate productivity. In 2019 the Government implemented a new innovation strategy, Country for the Future, which specifically targeted start-ups, digitalization and investments with higher value added.</p>
          <p>The Czech labour market is shifting away from medium-skilled towards high-skilled jobs, with a consequent skill mismatch. Although the workforce in the country is well-educated and comparable to those in Western economies, the demand for highly skilled (in particular for technically and generally educated) adults is expected to increase. Potential solutions to ease the challenges related to population ageing, as well as to support greater innovation, could involve, for example, a further educational upgrade of the workforce; a greater involvement of women in the labour market; and the reform of immigration policy to promote highly skilled immigration, including among Czech nationals working abroad.</p>
          <p>The Russian invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 has precipitated a large flow of refugees, many of them choosing the Czech Republic as their destination, partly due to the large Ukrainian diaspora already present in the country and the welcoming attitude of its population. Since the beginning of the war more than 504,000 Ukrainian refugees had been registered in the Czech Republic by April 2023, making the country among the most affected and the largest recipient of refugees per capita. The smooth integration of the Ukrainian refugees into Czech society and the labour market is of great importance. So far, the majority of working-age refugees have found employment already, while the majority of refugee children have been accepted into the Czech child care and schooling systems, and many follow Czech-language courses. However, further measures by the Government to improve the facilities and opportunities for the new refugees are essential.</p>
          <p>To conclude, although the Czech economy is prospering and has a number of structural advantages, such as a well-functioning welfare state with a universal social protection system, good-quality health care, a system of affordable public transportation, and relatively low overall income inequality, the economy also faces a number of challenges. In particular, in the long term these challenges are related to population ageing and to the maintenance of sustainable growth. Recent developments have shown the need for digitalization, automation, energy efficiency and the greater use of renewable energy sources. Thus, there is a strong necessity for the Government to implement newly introduced structural reforms, especially in the areas of R&amp;D and innovation policies, data infrastructure, and the facilitation of start-ups and SME growth, and reforms leading to a less bureaucratic and more efficient public administration and to a more sustainable environment.</p>
     </gen-section>
</country-survey>