<?xml version="1.0"?>
<country-survey id="CZ.HI" id-root="cz" iso="cz" original-filename="czehist.rtf" print-style="PGWIDTH" sect-type="history" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>History</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">The Czech Republic (Czechia)</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">History</alt-heading>
     <author-group>
          <primary-authors>
               <person-name>
                    <forename>Filip</forename>
                    <surname>Kostelka</surname>
               </person-name>
          </primary-authors>
     </author-group>
     <p>Chair in Political and Social Change, European University Institute, and Senior Lecturer, University of Essex</p>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Constitutional Structures</heading>
          <p id="EDITED.CZ.HI.P1">The independent and democratic Czech Republic (Czechia) was founded on 1 January 1993 after the collapse of a four-decade-long communist dictatorship in 1989 and a peaceful separation from a common state with Slovakia (Czechoslovakia, 1918-92). The new country’s Constitution laid the basis for a multi-party democracy with a bicameral parliament.</p>
          <p id="EDITED.CZ.HI.P2">The Poslanecká Sněmovna (the Chamber of Deputies—the lower house) is the main legislative body, which holds to account the government, headed by the Prime Minister. The Chamber of Deputies was first elected in the last federal Czechoslovak election in 1992 and is renewed every four years via elections in 14 constituencies (there were eight until 1998) and a proportional electoral system with a nationwide minimum threshold of 5% in order for parties to obtain representation in parliament. Unlike the Chamber of Deputies, the Senát (the Senate—the upper house) cannot dismiss the government and can be outvoted by the lower chamber on ordinary legislation (but, importantly, not on constitutional matters). It was first elected in 1996 and one-third of seats are renewed every two years via a two-round run-off electoral system in single-member districts.</p>
          <p>The constitutionality of legislation is reviewed by the Constitutional Court, which notably struck down an important electoral reform in 2000 that would have benefited the two main political parties at the time, the Česká Strana Sociálně Demokratická (ČSSD—Czech Social Democratic Party) and the Občanská Demokratická Strana (ODS—Civic Democratic Party) to the detriment of smaller rivals. One of the major constitutional revisions created self-governed regions, the leadership of which has been directly elected every four years since 2000. The Czech Republic has been a member of the European Union (EU) since 2004 and has elected representatives to the European Parliament since that year. Although the country is legally bound to adopt the euro currency and has essentially met the necessary Maastricht criteria, there has been neither the political will nor the public support to proceed to that end since the onset of the eurozone crisis in 2009.</p>
          <p>The head of state is the President. Since a major constitutional reform that threatened to undermine the whole institutional structure, the President is elected through a direct election via a two-round run-off electoral system. Prior to the first direct contest in 2013, the President was elected indirectly by the two chambers of the parliament. The President’s formal powers have, however, remained relatively limited. They mainly consist in the President’s discretionary right to choose the Prime Minister (after two unsuccessful attempts, this right goes to the Speaker of the Chamber of Deputies) and to appoint judges and other high-ranking public officials. The President can also veto legislation, but this power can be easily overridden by an absolute majority in the Chamber of Deputies. The President can dissolve the Chamber of Deputies only in strictly defined circumstances, which include a third no confidence motion against the government passing within a single legislative term. In particular, until 2013, the role of the President was mostly symbolic and representative, and legislative elections were the principal events that changed the course of national politics. The two following sections are structured around the presidencies of Václav Havel and Václav Klaus. These presidencies covered the first two decades of Czech independence and overlap with several fundamental changes in the political, economic and institutional context of Czech politics.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>The Václav Havel Presidency, 1993-2003</heading>
          <p>Václav Havel, a leading anti-communist dissident before 1989, was elected as the first President of the Czech Republic by the Chamber of Deputies in 1993. He was re-elected by the two chambers of Parliament in 1998. Despite growing criticism, Havel remained a widely respected moral authority in Czech politics and faced no serious opponent in those indirect elections. His two-term presidency largely corresponded with the political and economic transformation of the country from a post-communist transitional democracy with a largely state-owned economy into a liberal democracy with a market economy. This transformation was symbolically completed shortly after the end of Havel’s second term, when the Czech Republic joined the EU, which 63.2% of Czech voters approved in a referendum in 2003 (the only nationwide referendum to be held in the country to date). The country had already joined the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) in 1999.</p>
          <p>Until 1997, the leading force in party politics was the pro-market and conservative ODS. Its leader and Prime Minister, Václav Klaus, headed a coalition including two smaller right-wing parties: the liberal Občanská Demokratická Aliance (Civic Democratic Alliance) and the Křesťanská a Demokratická Unie-Československá Strana Lidová (KDU-ČSL—Christian Democratic Union-Czechoslovak Popular Party). The coalition governed first as a majority Government and from 1996 as a minority administration. It was the ODS that was responsible for taking many difficult decisions in the post-communist economic transformation. It notably started the privatization of the state-owned economy, which, as future scandals and economic failures revealed, was rushed and not accompanied by an appropriate legal framework that would prevent economic wrongdoing and outright criminality. Although Klaus espoused an economically neoliberal trajectory, his Government’s policies remained rather moderate in terms of their effects on society, especially when compared with other transitional post-communist economies. The effects of the economic transitions were none the less felt, which benefited the parties with left-wing economic policies. The Česká Strana Sociálně Demokratická (ČSSD—Czech Social Democratic Party), led by a new figure in Czech politics, Miloš Zeman, grew from taking just 6.5% of the votes cast in the Czechoslovak legislative elections of 1992 to 26.4% in the Czech legislative elections of 1996. When an ODS-led government prematurely fell in 1997, following an economic slowdown and a funding scandal within the ODS, the ČSSD won the ensuing snap legislative elections in 1998, receiving 32.3% of the votes cast. The ODS came second with 27.7%, followed by the Komunistická Strana Čech a Moravy (KSČM—Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia), a party of unreformed communists, with 11%, the KDU-ČSL with 9% and the Unie Svobody (US—Freedom Union, a liberal splinter group of the ODS) with 8.6%.</p>
          <p>The 1998 legislative elections resulted in a stand-off, as ideological and personal animosities prevented the emergence of a coalition backed by a parliamentary majority. To general surprise, Zeman (of the ČSSD) and Klaus (of the ODS) solved the situation by concluding the so-called Opposition Treaty. The ODS engaged to tacitly support the ČSSD’s minority Government in exchange for positions in parliament and various other government and regulatory bodies. In practice, the treaty meant that the two leading parties shared the spoils of office and that effective parliamentary opposition ceased to exist (the ODS formally engaged neither to initiate nor support any attempt to cause the ČSSD Government to collapse). This opened the door for economic mismanagement, corruption and the penetration of organized crime into the highest echelons of the state. The stakes were particularly high, as the largest state enterprises were still to be privatized. Numerous scandals surfaced in the following years, and the Czech Republic’s ranking fell dramatically in the Corruption Perceptions Index compiled by the German-based non-governmental organization Transparency International. The two allies of circumstance also attempted to wield tighter control over the state media and reform the state institutions to their advantage (notably the electoral system), although this was prevented by a combination of public protests and the Constitutional Court. More generally, given the polarized electoral campaign of 1998, in which Zeman and Klaus vehemently attacked each other, many voters interpreted the Opposition Treaty as a betrayal. This sparked rather short-lived demonstrations in 1999 (notably a civil initiative, `Thank you, time to go’). In the subsequent legislative elections of 2002, voter turnout fell to a record low (58%), and the votes obtained by the unreformed communist party (the KSČM) rose to 18.5%. Despite this public backlash, the ČSSD won the elections with 30% of the votes cast, ahead of the ODS (with 24.5%). The ČSSD’s victory was helped by Zeman’s resignation from the party leadership prior to the election and his replacement by the more technocratic Vladimír Špidla, who was appointed as his successor as Prime Minister.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>The Václav Klaus Presidency, 2003-13</heading>
          <p>After having lost the legislative elections, Klaus stepped down from the leadership of the ODS in December 2002, only to be elected the country’s President in March 2003. However, his presidential election and re-election (in 2008) faced significant opposition, requiring nine and six rounds of voting in parliament in 2003 and 2008, respectively, and were possible only owing to divisions in the ranks of Klaus’s critics and controversial support from the KSČM. In the 2003 election, Klaus’s defeated opponents included Zeman, who blamed his defeat on `traitors’ within the ČSSD and retired from politics for nearly a decade.</p>
          <p>Klaus presided over a period of relatively consolidated party politics, in which coalitions led by either the social-democratic ČSSD or the conservative ODS alternated in power. Populist parties remained mostly on the margins, despite numerous political scandals and the economic crisis that hit the country in 2008. Klaus himself, however, behaved as a harbinger of populist and radical challenges that were to come from 2013 onwards. He gradually moved from ambivalent and occasionally critical positions on Western politics, institutions and policies to increasingly Eurosceptic (anti-EU), anti-environmental and virulently pro-Russian speeches, which typically contrasted with the official position of the incumbent governments. His maverick behaviour intensified during his second term when he gave up his honorary presidency of the ODS and long postponed his signature of the Lisbon Treaty in 2009. Finally, days before leaving office, Klaus announced a highly controversial amnesty that freed from prison or granted immunity from prosecution to most of those who had been convicted or accused of economic crimes in the 1990s, when the Czech economy had been privatized under Klaus’s premiership. This act tarnished Klaus’s image among the public and significantly reduced his political influence and reputation.</p>
          <p>In party politics, the ČSSD remained the dominant force until 2006. Although its prime ministers stood down, owing variously to poor results in European Parliament elections (Vladimír Špidla in 2004) or financial scandals (Stanislav Gross in 2005), the party kept control of the prime ministerial office (assumed by Jiří Paroubek in April 2005) and ruled the country in a coalition with the Christian-Democratic KDU-ČSL and the liberal Unie Svobody-Demokratická Unie (Freedom Union-Democratic Union, formed in 2001). The coalition governments benefited from sustained economic growth, but to achieve the then-popular target of joining the eurozone they had to meet the EU’s Maastricht criteria, including the reduction of the budget deficit. The resulting cuts in public services provoked significant protests and public demonstrations by trade unions. The ČSSD’s popularity declined even further when Prime Minister Gross tried to resist the pressure to step down for several months over a scandal relating to the funding of his luxurious apartment in the capital, Prague. However, under Paroubek’s subsequent strong leadership, the ČSSD’s popularity promptly recovered.</p>
          <p>A few days before the legislative elections of June 2006, a political scandal that may have affected the election outcome emerged: the leak of a police report compromising the governing ČSSD (`the Kubice report’). The election itself resulted in a hung parliament, with the 200-member Chamber of Deputies becoming politically divided into two equal blocs of 100 deputies each. The situation was resolved only in January 2007 when two ČSSD deputies defected to support an ODS-led coalition including the KDU-ČSL and the Strana Zelených (Green Party). This raised suspicions of political corruption, which the opposition ČSSD and KSČM denounced. In addition to the economic crisis (from 2008), the fragile coalition had to face a number of potentially divisive challenges. The coalition eventually collapsed in March 2009, during the Czech presidency of the Council of the EU. It was replaced by a caretaker Government under Jan Fischer (the director of the Czech Statistical Office), which governed until the next legislative elections.</p>
          <p>The 2010 legislative elections brought a pyrrhic victory for the opposition ČSSD. Against the backdrop of the Greece’s sovereign debt crisis, right-wing parties swayed the Czech electorate, stating that a left-wing government would lead to a fiscal disaster. The ČSSD’s winning result, with 22% of the valid votes cast—largely below expectations in pre-election polls—was disappointing. It ultimately forced the party’s polarizing leader, Paroubek, to step down after four years at the head of the party. More generally, the party system showed the first signs of deconsolidation as the KDU-ČSL failed to reach the nationwide electoral threshold and was not represented in the lower chamber of the Czech parliament for the first time since 1990. By contrast, two new parties—Tradice, Odpovědnost, Prosperita 09 (TOP 09—Tradition, Responsibility, Prosperity 09, a liberal right-wing splinter group of the KDU-ČSL) and Věci Veřejné (VV—Public Affairs, centre-right populists running on an anti-corruption platform)—entered the Chamber of Deputies, achieving respectable scores (16.7% and 10.9%, respectively). It was these parties that helped the second-placed ODS (20.2%) to form a parliamentary majority, and its leader, Petr Nečas, to become Prime Minister.</p>
          <p>The new coalition (comprising the ODS, TOP 09 and VV) enforced budget austerity to cope with the economic crisis, for which its main architect, the finance minister Miroslav Kalousek of the TOP 09, became increasingly unpopular with the electorate. The spending cuts and tax increases met harsh opposition from trade unions and provoked large-scale protests in 2012. The coalition parties suffered heavy losses in senatorial and regional elections (in 2010 and 2012, respectively), which allowed the opposition ČSSD to control an absolute majority in the Senate (2010-14) for the first time (the first party to achieve this was the ODS in 2006). Furthermore, the Government’s authority was increasingly undermined by inter-party conflicts and scandals within VV. When a prominent member of VV, Vít Bárta, was convicted of bribing his colleagues in April 2012, several deputies defected from the party. Subsequently, these defectors formed a new party platform, Liberální Demokraté (LIDEM—Liberal Democrats), and replaced the original VV in the coalition Government.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>The Miloš Zeman Presidency, 2013-23</heading>
          <p>For the first time, the Czech electorate directly elected the country’s President in January 2013. To contest the election, candidates needed to receive backing from 20 deputies, 10 senators or 50,000 citizens. Given the largely ceremonial role of the presidency, the contest revolved mainly around candidates’ personalities and the values they symbolized. The personalized nature of the election was enhanced by a series of televised debates.</p>
          <p>In the first round the candidates of the ČSSD (Jiří Dienstbier, 16.1% of the valid votes cast, in fourth place) and the ODS (Přemysl Sobotka, with just 2.5%, in eighth place) were eliminated, as well as former Prime Minister (2009-10) and early favourite Fischer (16.4%, in third place), who ran as an independent. The second round thus opposed former Prime Minister (1998-2002) Zeman (with 24.2% of the votes cast and placed first in the first round) and the Minister of Foreign Affairs Karel Schwarzenberg (23.4% and in second place).</p>
          <p>Zeman’s candidacy was sponsored by the Strana Práv Občanů (SPO—Party of Civic Rights), founded in 2009 by a group of former Zeman’s allies from the ČSSD, former communist officials, and Russian-linked lobbyists. Despite having failed to gain representation in the legislative elections of 2010 (with 4.3% of votes), before the presidential election it managed to collect the necessary number of citizens’ signatures to enable Zeman’s candidacy. Zeman portrayed himself as the candidate of the `little man’ with left-wing and socially conservative values, and his support came especially from poorer, rural, industrial and peripheral regions. He clearly benefited from the fact that he had been retired from Czech politics since 2003 and had retained the aura of a leader who resurrected the democratic left in the 1990s (despite his role in the controversial Opposition Treaty). As a gifted public speaker, not shying away from populist and demagogical arguments, Zeman excelled in the televised debates.</p>
          <p>
      In contrast, Schwarzenberg was a less articulate debater. His supporters came mostly from urban liberal circles and cultural elites, and were concentrated in Prague. In the economically less privileged parts of the country, Schwarzenberg’s candidacy suffered from his aristocratic descent and, in particular, his membership of the unpopular ruling right-wing Government. Schwarzenberg also had to face a xenophobic campaign that exploited his past as an émigré under communism—he spent 1948-89 in Austria—and the fact that his Austrian wife did not speak Czech. On the first day of the second round of the election, the highest-circulation Czech daily newspaper, 
      <i>Blesk</i>
      , breached electoral and press laws and printed an anonymized advertisement falsely accusing Schwarzenberg of supporting the restitution of Czech property to German `war criminals’ (controversially stigmatizing ethnic Germans expelled from Czechoslovakia after the Second World War).
    </p>
          <p>Zeman won the second round comfortably, with 54.8% of the valid votes cast (against 45.2% for Schwarzenberg). After the election Zeman promised to unite the country and play the role of an impartial broker in party politics. However, in the years to come, the opposite seemed to happen. In many ways, Zeman continued the increasingly non-conformist course set by Klaus, who had supported Zeman’s candidacy. In office, Zeman purposely continued to cultivate the divisions in Czech society that crystallized during the presidential election campaign. He repeatedly criticized and attacked the liberal camp, which he pejoratively referred to as the `Prague Café’. Finally, he adopted an interventionist approach to Czech politics and when, after six months, a window of opportunity opened, attempted to alter the workings of the whole political system.</p>
          <p>In June 2013 the Chief Public Prosecutor’s Office in Olomouc launched a massive police operation including a raid on the Office of the Prime Minister and arrests of several of the Prime Minister’s closest colleagues. The rationale for this operation was accusations of corruption and abuse of power that later proved weak, which raised suspicion about the background to the scandal. However, Prime Minister Nečas resigned four days after the raid. Zeman, endowed with legitimacy from his recent election, seized his opportunity. Instead of appointing a new government backed by a parliamentary majority (the coalition of the ODS, TOP 09 and LIDEM wanted to appoint a new Prime Minister), he decided to go against established constitutional practice.</p>
          <p>A few days after taking office, Zeman appointed a `cabinet of experts’ including many of his close political allies and headed by Jiří Rusnok, who served as Minister of Finance under Zeman in 2001-02. The coalition parties, but initially also the ČSSD, strongly opposed the President’s unprecedented move. Despite support from the opposition parties (the KSČM, VV and the ČSSD), the Chamber of Deputies did not express confidence in Rusnok’s Government in an investiture vote, required by the Constitution for all new cabinets, in August 2013. Rusnok none the less continued to rule in caretaker capacity until January 2014, when a new Government was sworn in following snap legislative elections. Although Zeman’s attempt at presidentializing the political system failed, Rusnok’s Government spent nearly seven months in office and made a number of important appointments and executive decisions while lacking parliamentary legitimacy.</p>
          <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
               <heading>The 2013 Legislative Elections</heading>
               <p>Following the vote of no confidence in Rusnok’s Government and a very short electoral campaign, the October 2013 snap legislative elections were held in a context of strong dissatisfaction among the electorate. Public opinion blamed the established parties for austerity and economic stagnation, corruption scandals and ineffectiveness. Except for the KSČM, which benefited from the protest vote as in 2002, and received 14.9% of the valid votes cast, the vote share of all the parties in the outgoing legislature declined. Furthermore, VV and its splinter, LIDEM, failed to obtain representation, while three parties entered the Chamber of Deputies for the first time or returned following an absence. The results marked the end of the two-decade-long era during which the ODS and the ČSSD had been the two dominant political forces.</p>
               <p>Voters punished the ODS particularly severely. Receiving only 7.7% of the votes cast (a loss of 12.5 percentage points from 2010), the ODS came fifth, behind its former coalition partner TOP 09, which lost 4.7 percentage points compared with 2010, finishing in fourth position with 12% of the votes). However, the main left-wing competitor, the ČSSD, did not prove capable of capitalizing on the right-wing parties’ disarray. Its campaign had emphasized the fight against corruption, even though the party had little credibility on this issue: the ČSSD had been involved in multiple scandals since the 2000s, and one of the party’s leading figures and regional governor, David Rath, had been arrested while receiving a bribe as recently as 2012. The ČSSD ultimately won the election but it received a lower share of the votes (20.5%) than in 2010.</p>
               <p>
        The relatively unexpected beneficiary of the right-wing parties’ collapse was Akce Nespokojených Občanů (ANO—YES—Action of Dissatisfied Citizens), which finished second with 18.7% of the votes. The party was founded in 2011 by the second-richest citizen in the Czech Republic, Slovak-born Andrej Babiš. He kept a monopoly on all important decisions within the party, members of which were recruited from among Babiš’s employees. Babiš had made his fortune from an agro-chemical conglomerate, Agrofert, which he took over as a former employee in unclear circumstances in the mid-1990s. Because of his business interests, he had been in close contact with leading politicians, especially those from the ČSSD, since the late 1990s. However, in the early 2010s he decided to enter politics directly. Prior to the 2013 election, Agrofert acquired the Mafra media group, which owned some of the highest-circulation quality daily newspapers in the Czech Republic (including 
        <i>Mladá Fronta Dnes</i>
         and 
        <i>Lidové Noviny</i>
        ) and the country’s most visited news sites on the internet, such as 
        <i>idnes.cz</i>
         and 
        <i>lidovky.cz</i>
        . This new source of positive media coverage rapidly helped ANO to gain strong support and distract attention from its leader’s collaboration with the secret police under the communist regime in the 1980s. Moreover, ANO’s anti-establishment slogans (`We are not politicians, we work’ and `Run the state like a business’) and the party leader’s image as a successful businessman resonated with the electorate. Simultaneously, ANO succeeded in co-opting a number of relatively well-known and respected personalities on the party’s lists, which strengthened the party’s legitimacy.
      </p>
               <p>Two other parties represented in the new Chamber of Deputies that had been absent from the outgoing legislature were Úsvit Přímé Demokracie (Úsvit—Dawn of Direct Democracy), which finished sixth with 6.9% of the votes and the KDU-ČSL (in seventh position, with 6.8%). Whereas the latter was a traditional Christian-democratic party returning to the lower house after just three years of absence, the former corresponded to a new radical-right party organized around the personality of its Czech-Japanese leader, Tomio Okamura. Úsvit campaigned for direct democracy, against taxation and state bureaucracy and for stricter immigration and welfare provision rules.</p>
               <p>To President Zeman’s disappointment, the SPO fell below the electoral threshold, receiving just 1.5% of the votes. However, the President did not give up his intention to play an active role in party politics. On the evening following the election, Zeman invited a number of senior ČSSD members to a secret meeting, during which they discussed plans to replace the party’s Chairman, Bohuslav Sobotka (whom Zeman held as partially responsible for his defeat in the indirect presidential election of 2003). However, when the media subsequently found out about the meeting, the plot failed. It was announced that Sobotka was to remain party Chairman and retain the right to launch coalition negotiations. The ČSSD eventually entered into a coalition with ANO and the KDU-ČSL, which controlled in total 111 legislative deputies. Sobotka became Prime Minister and was one of eight representatives of the ČSSD in the Council of Ministers, in which ANO received six portfolios (including the Ministry of Finance for Babiš, by now the First Deputy Prime Minister) and the KDU-ČSL three. Sobotka’s Government took office in January 2014.</p>
          </gen-section>
          <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
               <heading>The Sobotka Government</heading>
               <p>The new coalition benefited from the end of the economic crisis and the sustained growth that commenced in 2014. The economic recovery increased public satisfaction with the country’s democratic institutions and gave the coalition partners greater leeway to implement their policy priorities. The governing coalition none the less faced three major challenges: its relationship with the President; international developments, in particular the 2015 migration crisis; and, finally, growing tensions between the ČSSD and ANO.</p>
               <p>Shortly after assuming office, the Government relaxed the austerity measures imposed by its predecessor. Subsequently, it amended the minimum wage, pensions and welfare benefits. The generous social measures were particularly sought by the ČSSD but, in time, they were increasingly embraced by ANO too. In line with its electoral pledges and, in some cases, under pressure from civil society initiatives, the Government adopted a number of measures to improve transparency in public life and to increase the efficacy and efficiency of the state: in 2014 the parliament approved new legislation that aimed to protect civil servants from political pressures; in 2015 it established a `registry of contracts’, which made available online all contracts concluded by public institutions; and in 2016 it introduced legislation on political party funding, which created a new office to monitor the receipts and expenditure of political parties. More controversial reforms included bills on the electronic registration of sales, which tackled tax evasion; and on the use of tobacco, which banned smoking in public places, including restaurants. These reforms were criticized, among other reasons, for their alleged negative effects on small businesses and public life in rural areas. The opposition (notably TOP 09 and the ODS) tried to use the reform of the electronic registration of sales to mobilize citizens against the Government (with little substantive effect).</p>
               <p>
        The relationship between the Government and the President was troublesome for two particular reasons. First, although Zeman claimed to be supportive of the EU and NATO, and—unlike his predecessor, Klaus—allowed the EU flag to be flown over the presidential office at Prague Castle, in practice he maintained a pro-Russian orientation in foreign affairs. His actions and attitudes often clashed with those of European and transatlantic institutions, with which the Sobotka Government enjoyed cordial relations. In particular, Zeman refused to acknowledge the Russian Federation’s involvement in Crimea in early 2014 (prior to Russia’s formal annexation of the territories there, and internationally regarded as part of Ukraine), criticized the EU’s imposition of sanctions against Russia later in that year in response to its intervention in Ukraine, and attended commemorations of the 70th anniversary of the end of the Second World War in the Russian capital, Moscow, in May 2015. His pro-Russian stance attracted criticism from US Senator John McCain, and 
        <i>The Washington Post</i>
         called Zeman a `virtual mouthpiece for Russian President Vladimir Putin’. Second, Zeman’s animosity towards Sobotka led the President to support Babiš in an effort to undermine Sobotka’s authority, especially when ANO and the ČSSD began to compete against each other before the 2017 legislative elections.
      </p>
               <p>Meanwhile, the refugee crisis, which reached its peak in 2015, had a strong effect on Czech politics. In reaction to a growing number of migrants coming to Europe, notably from the Syrian Arab Republic, the EU Council of Ministers adopted binding quotas of refugees for each EU member state, despite opposition from the Sobotka Government (and those of other Central European countries). The developments provoked outrage among the Czech public, exacerbated by a series of recent terrorist attacks in Western European cities by Islamist groups. Many believed that the EU was imposing upon the ethnically homogenous Czech society a multicultural model that was failing in Western Europe. In addition to more nuanced forms of opposition, this sparked a rise in Euroscepticism, xenophobia and far-right radicalism, though only a negligible number of immigrants were arriving in the Czech Republic. President Zeman’s approval ratings increased to 60% as he expressed populist and nationalist opinions, but his participation in a demonstration organized by the Blok Proti Islámu (Bloc Against Islam) organization—one of several groups reflecting growing anti-immigration sentiment—led to a public reprimand from Sobotka. Meanwhile, Úsvit disintegrated in early 2015, and after the party’s founder, Okamura, was expelled, he formed a new party, Svoboda a Přímá Demokracie (SPD—Freedom and Direct Democracy).</p>
               <p>
        Overall, however, citizens were economically and politically satisfied. The rate of unemployment fell sharply (to just 3.8% in 2017), salaries grew rapidly after years of stagnation (by 4.4% in 2017), and the government budget recorded a surplus for the first time since 1995. Paradoxically, these excellent economic results, together with welfare expansion, did not benefit the ČSSD, which fell behind its junior coalition partner, ANO, in popularity. The latter party won the regional elections in October 2016, and opinions polls showed Babiš to be the country’s most popular politician by early 2017. Thanks to Babiš’s media empire (which had incorporated the radio station with the largest audience in the country, 
        <i>Impuls</i>
        , in 2015), his role as Minister of Finance and his image as a successful businessman (contrasting with Sobotka’s technocratic appearance), Babiš could persuasively claim credit for economic prosperity. Moreover, the ČSSD’s reputation suffered from a controversial merger of elite police units in August 2016, which was rushed and gave the impression that it had been implemented in order to protect the party and some of its well-connected allies in the business sector.
      </p>
               <p>
        Sobotka tried to save the situation by reshuffling his cabinet and, notably, by passing a new law on conflicts of interest (sometimes called `Lex Babiš’) in January 2017. Opposed only by ANO, a few independents (including Okamura) and President Zeman (whose veto the Chamber of Deputies overturned), the new legislation forbade ministers from owning media groups or benefiting from public subsidies through their companies. In response, Babiš formally transferred his wealth to a trust managed by his wife. However, in early May the police began to investigate Babiš on suspicion of tax evasion. Nearly simultaneously, a recording shared on an anonymous social media account revealed Babiš had been directly giving orders to a journalist from 
        <i>Mladá Fronta Dnes</i>
        , which belonged to his (or, formally, his wife’s) Agrofert group. In this context, Sobotka decided to remove Babiš from the cabinet. Babiš resigned in late May, which helped the coalition to survive until the legislative elections.
      </p>
          </gen-section>
          <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
               <heading>The 2017 Legislative Elections</heading>
               <p>The elections to the Chamber of Deputies, held on 20-21 October 2017, were held in the context of sustained economic growth. However, in conformity with the long-term dynamic in public opinion, this economic prosperity paradoxically resulted in electoral disaster for the ČSSD (the winner of the legislative polls in 2013) and a triumph for the centrist, populist ANO (one of the newcomers in 2013). For the first time, neither the ČSSD nor the ODS won the legislative elections. As in 2013, the established parties generally performed poorly, and three new parties entered the Chamber of Deputies. Overall, the chamber became more fragmented, and party formations that had not been in the lower house prior to 2013 won 56% of the votes cast and 65% of the seats.</p>
               <p>
        Just before the election campaign, in June 2017 the ČSSD attempted to reinvigorate its support by dividing the leading roles in the party: Sobotka remained Prime Minister; Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomir Zaorálek became the party’s election campaign leader; and Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec was named as provisional party Chairman. Subsequently, in an attempt to placate radical elements of the electorate, Chovanec proposed a reform (rejected by the Senate) to make carrying a firearm a constitutional right. Meanwhile, in August the police launched a new investigation into Babiš, in response to allegations of fraudulent practice (see 
        <i>Babiš’s Second Cabinet</i>
        ), which were already known to the public owing to earlier reports in the media and an extraordinary session of the Chamber of Deputies called to discuss the matter in 2016. None the less, the ČSSD’s support did not increase, and the party’s prospects were further undermined by an online disinformation campaign in early October 2017, which claimed that a memorandum on lithium extraction lithium, signed by the party’s Minister of Trade and Industry and an Australian mining company, would benefit the party, while damaging national interests. The affair dominated the end of the campaign and probably affected the outcome of the election.
      </p>
               <p>The election results of the three coalition partners varied significantly. ANO won by a clear margin, with 29.6% of the votes cast (an increase of 10.9 percentage points from 2013), which could be ascribed to its ability to take credit for economic prosperity in 2013-17, populist criticism of mainstream parties and favourable coverage of the party in media organs owned by its leader. In contrast, the ČSSD recorded its worst result since 1992, with just 7.3% of the votes (down by 13.2 percentage points from 2013), finishing sixth. The third coalition partner, the KDU-ČSL, experienced a much less severe decline, with 5.8% of the votes, and was seventh, benefiting from a loyal electoral base in staunchly Catholic southern Moravia in the south-east.</p>
               <p>Among the mainstream opposition parties, the conservative ODS rebounded under the leadership of a new leader, Petr Fiala, a former university rector, and came second with 11.6% of the votes. Conversely, liberal TOP 09, which had a campaign focused on presenting Babiš as a danger to Czech democracy, crossed the threshold for parliamentary representation by only a very small margin, with 5.3% of the votes. Two new parties that had built their reputation at the local level obtained representation. The centrist Starostové a Nezávislí (STAN—Mayors and Independents) party, candidates of which had been included on the TOP 09’s list in 2013 and which decided to contest the elections alone in 2017, received 5.2% of the votes. The Pirátská Strana (Piráti—Pirate Party), which was founded in 2009 and emphasized democratic principles and the rule of law, took 10.8%. Piráti represented natural allies for the opposition in that they took a clear stand against co-operation with ANO, while remaining critical of the recent behaviour in office of the more established parties, including the ODS and TOP 09.</p>
               <p>Finally, two extremist parties entered the lower house. The communist KSČM received 7.8% of the votes, down by 7.1 percentage points from 2013, representing its poorest election performance to date. Besides the positive economic context and ANO’s anti-establishment discourse, the party’s decline resulted from the success of Okamura’s new anti-immigration party, the SPD, which competed for protest votes and received 10.6% of the votes. Overall, however, the 2017 elections weakened the radical and Eurosceptic camp in the lower chamber, despite the rise of nationalism and radicalism following the refugee crisis. Although the KSČM (with 33 seats) and Úsvit (14 seats) together held 47 seats in 2013, the combined total in 2017 was just 37, with the KSČM winning 15 seats and the SPD winning 22. This was only partly compensated for by the presence of a few radical elements within some of the mainstream parties (notably Václav Klaus, Jr, the son of the former President, in the ODS).</p>
               <p>President Zeman invited Babiš to form a government. However, as Babiš was facing ongoing police investigations, the mainstream parties refused to co-operate with ANO, which had 78 seats in the lower house and needed 23 more to reach a majority. While the KSČM and the SPD expressed willingness to enter a coalition with ANO, Babiš refused, instead announcing that he would form a minority government. The cabinet was appointed by Zeman in December 2017, but it failed to obtain the approval of the Chamber of Deputies in January 2018, shortly after the first round of the presidential election.</p>
          </gen-section>
          <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
               <heading>The 2018 Presidential Election</heading>
               <p>The first round of the second direct presidential election took place on 12-13 January 2018 and the second round on 26-27 January. Eight candidates challenged Zeman, who made a successful bid for a second term. The contest attracted strong interest, which was reflected in the highest voter turnout since 1998 (66.6% in the second round).</p>
               <p>Throughout his first term, Zeman had polarized the electorate. Although his predecessors Havel and Klaus had typically enjoyed high levels of public trust during most of their respective presidencies, Zeman’s ratings in opinion polls were generally more neutral and sometimes negative. This was especially the case in 2014, after a series of blunders in domestic politics, when the President attended official ceremonies while inebriated and, on other occasions, used graphic language in the state media. None the less, the President’s support rebounded and reached respectable levels (about a 60% rate of approval) the following year when, in the context of the refugee crisis, Zeman took a prominent role in denouncing immigration and Islam.</p>
               <p>Zeman faced five strands of criticism. First, his sympathy with Russia and the People’s Republic of China sometimes seemed to go well beyond a simple effort to establish or maintain close commercial partnerships, above all in the context of EU sanctions against Russia. Zeman also publicly mocked the national security information service when it reported that Russian and Chinese intelligence services were intensifying their activities in the Czech Republic. Second, in stark contrast to the legacy of Havel’s founding presidency, Zeman appeared to do little to promote democracy and the rule of law. When travelling to authoritarian regimes, he systematically avoided any reference to human rights and, on his visit to China in October 2014, infamously stated that he had come to `learn how to stabilize society’. Domestically, his statements questioning the usefulness of the upper chamber, stigmatizing religious and ethnic minorities or joking about murdering journalists, gave an impression that Zeman did not value the country’s democratic institutions and principles. Third, in his capacity as President, Zeman effectively overturned established constitutional practice on several occasions, including with regard to the manner of the appointment of the Rusnok cabinet, the resignation of Prime Ministers, and a number of refusals to appoint public officials for personal reasons. Fourth, Zeman’s entourage had links with Russia and China and, based on various scandals (notably related to the presidential residence in Lány, west of Prague), seemed to exploit the President’s office for private gain. Fifth, the ageing Zeman had health problems and, apparently, a proclivity to drink alcohol to excess. Combined with his tendency towards plain-speaking, this sometimes led him to undertake actions that even his core supporters perceived as unworthy of a presidential office-holder.</p>
               <p>Given significant public opposition to Zeman, several candidates, mostly from civil society, but also former ODS Prime Minister (in 2006-09) Mirek Topolánek, eventually entered the presidential race. Conscious of his incumbency advantage and visibly deteriorating health, Zeman refused to participate in television debates that preceded the first round. He counted on support from his ally of circumstance, Babiš, but also from the SPD and the KSČM. Several of Zeman’s most vocal critics, including most culturally liberal parties, eventually united in supporting Jiří Drahoš, the former head of the Czech Academy of Sciences. His campaign promised to restore dignity, moderation and constitutionality to the presidency. In the first round, Drahoš took 26.6% of the valid votes cast, well behind Zeman with 38.6%. However, Zeman’s prospects suddenly looked bleak, as all the main defeated candidates (representing 32.5% of the votes in the first round) rallied around Drahoš before the run-off poll. In response, Zeman agreed to participate in a series of televised debates with Drahoš. Simultaneously, media organs sympathetic to Zeman intensified a campaign against Drahoš, with a widely distributed political advertisement issued one week before the second round reading `Vote for Zeman. Stop immigration and Drahoš! This country is ours’.</p>
               <p>The polarized campaign increased voter turnout in the second round by more than 4.7 percentage points, from 61.9% in the first round. Some culturally conservative voters may also have abstained in the first round as opinion polls had shown that Zeman’s progression to the second round was almost certain. Zeman emerged as the winner in the second round, with 51.4% of the votes, compared with 48.6% for Drahoš. As in 2013, Zeman’s bastions of support were in peripheral and industrial regions, small cities and rural areas, whereas large cities, in particular Prague, preferred Drahoš. In terms of wider implications, Zeman’s victory strengthened Babiš’s position, as Zeman had promised (even before the second round of the election) that he would offer him a further attempt to form a cabinet.</p>
          </gen-section>
          <gen-section id="CZ.DIR.16263394991" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
               <heading>Babiš’s Second Cabinet</heading>
               <p>In the aftermath of the presidential election, Babiš, whose minority Government remained in office in a caretaker capacity, had to start searching anew for coalition partners. After five months, the ČSSD eventually capitulated, despite internal opposition (the decision was taken by an internal party referendum, with 58.5% of party members voting in favour of forming a coalition with ANO). However, Babiš’s second cabinet controlled only 93 seats in the lower house (ANO held 78 and the ČSSD 15). In order to obtain legislative approval in June 2018 it had thus to rely on tacit support from the KSČM (15 seats), with which ANO concluded a `tolerance agreement’. This meant that, for the first time since 1989, a communist party indirectly gained access to executive power, which prompted sporadic, low-level protests in several large cities. In the new cabinet ANO held 10 seats and the ČSSD held five.</p>
               <p>Shortly after the cabinet was formed, one minister from each of ANO and the ČSSD was forced to resign over plagiarism in their university theses. The coalition’s policies pursued a similar direction to that under the Sobotka Government. Generous welfare arrangements and pay increases in the state sector were combined with less systemic measures, such as a reduction in public transport fares for pensioners and students in September 2018. Mounting government expenditure and the fact that, in the context of continuous economic growth, the government budget ended in a deficit provoked stern criticism from opposition parties and economists. The emphasis on consumption and the low investment in infrastructure suggested that the Government prioritized the consolidation of electoral support over long-term economic sustainability. The strategy worked well for ANO (with support in opinion polls of at least 32% from early 2018) but less so for the ČSSD (with support remaining at about 7%). This was confirmed in the European Parliament elections in June 2019, which ANO won, albeit with only 21% of the votes, but the ČSSD failed to cross the 5% threshold for representation.</p>
               <p>None the less, Babiš and his Government came under increasingly pressure from the opposition and civil society over allegations of fraud and conflict of interest. In particular, Babiš was suspected of committing fraud during the construction of the Stork’s Nest (Čapí Hnízdo) resort in southern Bohemia during 2008-10. In order to benefit from EU subsidies for small businesses, Babiš had transferred ownership of the site from his conglomerate Agrofert to his family but, once construction was complete, the resort’s ownership was transferred back to Agrofert. In November 2018 investigative journalists published a recording, which indicated that Babiš involved his son in the affair, by compelling him to visit Russian-controlled Crimea `on holiday’ to avoid interrogation by the Czech police. The broadcast provoked small demonstrations organized by civil society and an unsuccessful vote of no confidence against Babiš in the Chamber of Deputies.</p>
               <p>In April 2019 the police recommended that Babiš be charged with fraud, referring the investigation to prosecutors. The Prime Minister responded by appointing Marie Benešová, a controversial ally of President Zeman, as the new Minister of Justice. The decision appeared to threaten the independence of the judicial system in general, and the investigation into the Stork’s Nest case in particular, particularly when, in September, the supervising public prosecutor, Jaroslav Šaroch, decided to halt the investigation. However, Šaroch’s decision was overturned a few months later by the Chief Prosecutor, Pavel Zeman (unrelated to the country’s President). In December Zeman returned the case to Šaroch for additional investigation.</p>
               <p>In addition to the Stork’s Nest affair, Babiš faced a number of other accusations. In mid-2019 the Czech police started investigating Babiš’s companies for a potential tax evasion scheme, indirectly related to the Stork’s Nest investigation. At the same time, a case was opened regarding allegations that Babiš’s son had been taken forcibly to Crimea. In December a European Commission audit concluded that, because of his businesses, the Czech Prime Minister had a conflict of interest and that the Czech Republic should return all the subsidies that his companies had received from EU cohesion funds. Another audit, focusing on agricultural subsidies, came to the same conclusion in a preliminary report in January 2020. Finally, as a result of an investigative mission to the Czech Republic, the Budget Control Committee of the European Parliament demanded in May that Babiš refrain from participating in budget-related negotiations in the European Council.</p>
               <p>Babiš’s alleged wrongdoing had prompted another unsuccessful vote of no confidence in the Chamber of Deputies on 27 June 2019, and a series of protests by civil society, led by the non-partisan initiative Milion Chvilek pro Demokracii (A Million Moments for Democracy). In the two largest demonstrations since the fall of communism, organized in Prague in June and November, some 250,000 protesters demanded that Minister of Justice Marie Benešová resign, and that Babiš sever links with his former businesses or resign. While the COVID-19 pandemic prevented massive gatherings from March 2020 (see below), over 430,000 citizens had signed a petition in favour of Babiš’s resignation by May. Nevertheless, Babiš continued to deny all charges and refused to resign. Continuing economic prosperity and high government expenditure helped maintain support for ANO in opinion polls at above 30% until late 2020, when the pandemic took hold.</p>
               <p>Meanwhile, in mid-2019 the opposition-controlled Senate had voted in favour of a motion to remove President Zeman from office for stretching the limits of his constitutional prerogatives and interfering in judicial affairs. However, the initiative was defeated in the lower house in September 2019.</p>
               <p>
        Early 2020 was characterized, 
        <i>inter alia</i>
        , by diplomatic disputes with two world superpowers: China and Russia. The Czech National Cyber and Information Security Agency had in December 2018 issued a warning against the use of technologies developed by Chinese firm Huawei, due to Western cyber-security concerns. Following a meeting with Babiš, the Chinese ambassador claimed that the Czech authorities had apologized for the agency’s alleged mistake. Babiš vehemently denied the ambassador’s statement but the Chinese embassy did not fully retract its claim. In January 2020 the Chairman of the Czech Senate, Jaroslav Kubera of the ODS, died of a heart attack shortly before a planned visit to the Republic of China (Taiwan). The Czech media and Kubera’s family and associates subsequently reported that, because of his intention to visit Taiwan, Kubera had come under strong pressure from both the Chinese embassy and the Czech President’s office (notoriously close to Chinese interests). At the beginning of September Kubera’s successor, Miloš Vystrčil, heading a 90-member delegation to Taiwan, controversially declared `I am Taiwanese’ when addressing Taiwan’s unicameral parliament. The visit, which had been discouraged by Babiš’s cabinet, infuriated the Chinese authorities as well as President Zeman. None the less, Vystrčil was re-elected as Chairman of the Senate after a partial election to the upper chamber in October 2020.
      </p>
               <p>
        Meanwhile, acrimony with Russia was provoked by several symbolic decisions made by municipalities in Prague, which included (in February 2020) the renaming of a square outside the Russian embassy in Prague after a murdered Russian opposition politician, Boris Nemtsov, and (in April) the removal of a statue of a controversial Soviet-era military commander, Marshal Ivan Konev. This prompted strong criticism from Russian Minister of Foreign Affairs Sergei Lavrov and attacks by extremists on the Czech embassy in Moscow. The Czech police subsequently placed the mayors of Prague and of two districts in the capital under protection, based on information provided by the Czech security services. According to the Czech periodical 
        <i>Respekt</i>
        , the Russian secret service had sent an agent carrying the poison ricin on an assassination mission to Prague. Although this sensational news was later refuted by the Czech intelligence agency (Bezpečnostní Informační Služba—BIS), Babiš’s cabinet expelled two Russian diplomats in early June; Russia immediately expelled two Czech diplomats.
      </p>
               <p>The first cases of COVID-19 were detected in the Czech Republic on 1 March 2020. The Government declared a state of emergency on 12 March (10 days before the first death attributed to the disease). A national lockdown was imposed on 16 March. The progressive easing of lockdown restrictions commenced from late April. At the end of August Babiš publicly championed his skills in governance, announcing that the country was `Best in COVID’. However, by that time the number of infections had already started rising and the Government’s scientific advisory body, established in late July, had recommended stringent restrictions and, in particular, a full reinstatement of compulsory face coverings. The Prime Minister did not act on these recommendations, which opinion polls indicated were unpopular, fearing a backlash in regional and senatorial elections scheduled for early October. This paid off, and Babiš’s ANO received the largest share of the votes (22%) in the regional elections, a very similar result to that of 2016. Nevertheless, ANO’s junior coalition partner, the ČSSD, suffered an electoral defeat, with its share of the vote collapsing from 15% in 2016 to 5% in 2020. Overall the two parties lost seven gubernatorial posts and 11 senatorial seats to opposition parties, including Piráti, the ODS and STAN.</p>
               <p>From 5 October 2020 the Government introduced a new state of emergency to contain the pandemic. Nevertheless, by mid-October the country recorded the highest daily number of new COVID-19 cases per capita in the world (at over 10,000), and it recorded the highest number of deaths per capita by the beginning of November (over 200 per day). Throughout December, the number of infections remained relatively high. However, during December the Government gave in to public opinion and lifted some of the pandemic restrictions. This presumably contributed to a new wave of infection, which reached a peak in mid-January 2021 (with over 10,000 new daily cases). In the ensuing weeks, the number of new infections did not fall below 6,000 per day. Despite the restrictions in place, the country began to experience its most severe COVID-19 outbreak to date. Between mid-February and mid-March new infections again exceeded 10,000 a day, overwhelming public hospitals. The Government banned travel across districts (territorial units nested in regions), except for work reasons, introduced mandatory COVID-19 tests in workplaces and activated plans for treating Czech patients abroad. From late March infections finally started to decline. The state of emergency was lifted on 11 April, by which time the Czech Republic’s cumulative death toll was the second highest in the world (at around 30,000 deaths by late May 2021). This was highlighted by activists from the Milion Chvilek pro Demokracii who painted a white cross for every fatality on the cobblestones of Prague’s medieval Old Town Square, attracting worldwide media attention.</p>
               <p>Babiš’s Government came under heavy criticism for its alleged mishandling of the pandemic and, in late February 2021, even the Prime Minister conceded that the Government had committed `far too many mistakes’. Critics argued that Babiš seemed to prioritize public opinion over substantive scientific advice that could have prevented deaths. The Government was criticized for a lack of effective leadership, breaching its own rules and recommendations and, from the public perspective, delegitimizing effective virus containment measures. Between September 2020 and May 2021 the country had no fewer than four health ministers appointed by ANO. Adam Vojtěch, who had been in office since 2017, resigned in September 2020 when the Prime Minister overturned policies introduced by him that were designed to mitigate the second wave of the pandemic. His successor, Roman Prymula, stepped down in October, after having been found to have violated his own pandemic rules by attending a dinner with health industry officials and lobbyists. President Zeman successfully pressured Babiš to replace the next health minister, Jan Blatný (October 2020-April 2021), for opposing the use of Russian (Sputnik V) and Chinese (Sinopharm) vaccines, which had not been approved by the European Medicines Agency. Blatný was succeeded by Petr Arenberger, who was forced to resign at the end of May after being accused of tax evasion and conflict of interest. In an unexpected move, Babiš reappointed Adam Vojtěch to the post.</p>
               <p>
        The COVID-19 pandemic dealt a serious blow to the Czech Republic’s economic prosperity and Babiš’s image as an effective leader, and a series of scandals further tarnished the Prime Minister’s popularity. The chemicals company Deza, a subsidiary of Babiš-linked conglomerate Agrofert, was initially suspected of being responsible for a series of toxic leaks that had polluted the Bečva river in September 2020. While the investigation was still in its infancy, the public authorities cleared Deza of responsibility and imposed an information embargo on the case. In April investigative journalists from the news website 
        <i>Seznam Zprávy</i>
         acquired the content of the diary of Babiš’s close ally and ANO former vice-chairman, Jaroslav Faltynek. The document provided evidence of widespread political corruption and, de facto, ANO’s colonization of the state. Also in April, the European Commission made public its final report on the conflict of interest inquiry relating to cohesion fund subsidies, incorporating objections by the Czech authorities, which first received the document in December 2019. It concluded that, by controlling Agrofert, the Prime Minister was in a breach of EU and national legislation, and his conglomerate had no right to EU cohesion subsidies. This, 
        <i>inter alia</i>
        , implied that Agrofert had unlawfully acquired hundreds of millions of koruna, provisionally paid by the Czech taxpayer from the state budget. Justice minister Marie Benešová controversially appeared to suggest that Agrofert should keep the money. Shortly afterwards, Prosecutor-General Zeman, who supervised the investigations into Stork’s Nest affair and the Vrbětice explosions (see below), submitted his resignation, citing undue pressure from Benešová.
      </p>
               <p>On 17 April 2021 Prime Minister Babiš and Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček (of the ČSSD) announced at a press conference that Russian secret services were suspected of involvement in explosions at two ammunition warehouses in Vrbětice in 2014. The blasts, originally considered accidental, had killed two Czech citizens and caused damage worth some 1,000m. koruna. According to the BIS, the sabotage had aimed to prevent the sale of arms to Ukraine, and had been carried out by two Russian secret service agents linked to the poisoning of former Russian military officer and `double agent’ Sergei Skripal in the UK in 2018. Russia denied any involvement; a diplomatic dispute ensued, as a result of which the Czech authorities ultimately reduced the size of Russia’s diplomatic mission to Prague (originally consisting of more than 110 staff) to that of its own diplomatic mission in Moscow (just over 30 staff). Furthermore, the Czech Ministry of Industry and Trade excluded the Russian state corporation Rosatom from a tender to build a new unit at the Dukovany nuclear power plant, the most significant Czech public investment project on record, worth some 162,000m. koruna. Russia reciprocated by issuing a list of hostile countries, which included the Czech Republic and the USA. While the Czech ruling parties and the opposition unanimously condemned Russia, the far-left KSČM and far-right SPD questioned the Czech version of events. Furthermore, President Zeman maintained his usual pro-Russian stance, and claimed that investigators also considered an alternative version of events. Investigative journalists later reported that Minister of the Interior and acting Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Hamáček had allegedly first intended to trade Czech silence over the suspicions against Russia in exchange for priority access to the Sputnik V vaccine and a Russia-US summit to be held in Prague. Hamáček vehemently refuted the accusations, but evidence emerged suggesting that he had known about Russia’s involvement long before the press conference, and that he had nevertheless planned an official visit to Moscow.</p>
          </gen-section>
          <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
               <heading>The 2021 Legislative Elections</heading>
               <p>
        The COVID-19 pandemic and the government scandals served to benefit opposition parties prior to the legislative elections scheduled for 8-9 October 2021. In December 2020 they regrouped into two alliances to circumvent the disadvantages that the electoral formula for the distribution of seats in the lower chamber (the D’Hondt method) imposed on smaller parties. Piráti a Starostové (Pirates and Mayors—PaS) united the culturally liberal Piráti and centrist STAN parties. Spolu (Together) consisted of the conservative ODS, the Christian-democratic KDU-ČSL, and liberal TOP 09. Ironically, in February 2021 the Constitutional Court abolished the electoral formula, reducing the high electoral thresholds for coalitions (in effect from 2000), which were deemed to be unconstitutional. 
        <!--https://brnodaily.com/2021/05/05/news/politics/president-zeman-signs-new-electoral-system-into-law/-->
        A new electoral system, employing a different formula for the allocation of seats, was adopted. However, these developments did not jeopardize the new alliances’ unity, nor their prospects for the forthcoming legislative elections. Based on polls of voting intentions in late May, PaS overtook ANO as the most popular political force. This prompted a virulent negative campaign by both government politicians and Czech disinformation websites, falsely accusing the unconventional Piráti of pro-migration conspiracies, plans for expropriation, or involvement in drug trafficking. Prime Minister Babiš centred his election campaign on state sovereignty, criticism of the European institutions, and migration, while adding to his Government’s already increased social expenditure. Babiš explicitly demonstrated this new political orientation by inviting his Hungarian counterpart, and the most visible European illiberal politician, Viktor Orbán, to attend his campaign shortly before the elections. Facilitated by Babiš’s media empire, the new strategy successfully downplayed the Government’s mismanagement of the COVID-19 pandemic in the public debate and enabled ANO to rebound back to head the polls. The opposition coalitions, supported by the Milion Chvilek pro Demokracii movement, aimed to present the elections as a referendum on Babiš, denouncing the Prime Minister’s conflicts of interest, his fiscal irresponsibility, and the country’s high inflation. Their cause was assisted when, a few days before the elections, Babiš’s name was linked to the so-called Pandora Papers (confidential documents on international public figures that were leaked to the press), revealing that the Prime Minister had purchased properties, including an estate in France, through offshore companies before he entered politics.
      </p>
               <p>The polarized campaign around the character of the Prime Minister attracted the highest legislative voter turnout since the 1990s at the legislative elections on 8-9 October 2021, of 65.4%. While ANO won 27.1% of the votes cast and the largest number of seats (72), all of its potential coalition partners, except for the far-right SPD (which obtained 9.6% of the votes and 20 seats), failed to reach the 5% electoral threshold for parliamentary representation. The traditional left-wing parties, the ČSSD (4.7% of the votes) and the KSČM (3.6%), suffered for their previous collaboration with ANO. Babiš’s economically left-wing and culturally conservative ideological turn, and the outgoing Government’s generous fiscal measures, often misattributed to ANO, drew support away from the ČSSD and the KSČM. The parties’ tribulations ended the ČSSD’s record of continuous parliamentary representation since 1996 and, in the case of KSČM, ousted communist representatives from the Czech legislature for the first time since the early 1920s. Altogether, nearly 20% of the votes were cast for mostly left-wing or populist parties that were unable to secure representation in the new legislature. Their fragmentation paved the way for a democratic, right-wing majority, meaning that ANO would not participate in government for the first time since 2013. The Spolu coalition won the highest share of the votes in the elections, with 27.8% (71 seats), benefiting from a strong performance by the coalition’s leader, Petr Fiala of the ODS, in pre-election debates. PaS was placed third, with 15.6% of the votes (37 seats). Piráti, which had been rated as the country’s most popular party just five months before the elections, became the main losers in the oppositional camp. The number of seats won by Piráti alone dropped from 22 in 2017 to just four, due to the pre-election disinformation campaign and, as later emerged, to STAN’s disregard of their coalition’s commitment not to encourage voters to use preferential voting.</p>
               <p>Later on 9 October 2021 all five constituent parties of the two electoral coalitions signed a memorandum expressing their commitment to form a new cabinet headed by Fiala, and ruling out negotiations with any other political force. The process of government formation was complicated by the hospitalization of President Zeman on 10 October. The President’s unclear prognosis and prospects for recovery prompted Chairman of the Senate Vystrčil to consider triggering Article 66 of the Constitution, which would temporarily remove Zeman from office. However, Zeman’s health had improved by the time the five-party coalition agreement was signed on 8 November. Although before the elections Zeman had claimed that he would appoint the leader of the strongest party, rather than coalition, as Prime Minister (which would be Babiš), on 9 November, although still hospitalized, he invited Fiala to form a cabinet. He subsequently tried to oppose Fiala’s choice as Minister of Foreign Affairs, Jan Lipavský of Piráti, but ceded when Fiala threatened to refer the dispute to the Constitutional Court. Fiala’s new Government, comprising six members nominated by the ODS, four by STAN (of whom two were independents), three each by the KDU-ČSL and Piráti, and two by TOP 09, was appointed on 17 December and comfortably won a vote of confidence in the Chamber of Deputies on 13 January 2022.</p>
          </gen-section>
          <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
               <heading>The Fiala Cabinet</heading>
               <p>The new ruling coalition took office in exceptionally difficult circumstances. The Babiš administration’s extravagant expenditure had left the country with public debt growing at the second fastest rate in the EU, while the rate of inflation was the third highest. Rising global energy prices and the bankruptcy of several Czech energy providers left many households unable to pay their electricity and gas bills. Meanwhile, new waves of infection in the COVID-19 pandemic hit the country in November-December 2021, and in January-February 2022, when infection rates reached new highs (with up to 57,000 daily cases on 1 February). Furthermore, a number of settlements in southern Moravia needed state aid for recovery, after being struck in June 2021 by the strongest tornado in the country’s history, which caused damage worth some 15,000m. koruna. Finally, following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine on 24 February 2022, some 390,000 Ukrainians, mostly women and children, had sought refuge in the Czech Republic by July.</p>
               <p>The fiscally conservative Government addressed these challenges with variable success. It responded to rising living costs by re-evaluating existing benefits and introducing new social instruments, such as one-off payments for families with an annual income under 1m. koruna. Critics argued that these measures were insufficient and that bureaucratic requirements made them inaccessible to many potential beneficiaries. According to some indicators, the share of the population living below the national poverty line increased by six percentage points between 2021 and May 2022. The cabinet was more successful in dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic, with vaccination and the less dangerous Omicron variant of the virus enabling the Government to cope without resorting to further lockdowns that would stifle economic recovery. By 4 May nearly all anti-pandemic measures had been lifted. Meanwhile, with regard to Russia’s aggression against Ukraine from February, the Government took a firm position. From the very beginning, the Czech Republic was one of the leading providers of material and military support to Ukraine. Prime Minister Fiala and his Polish and Slovenian counterparts were the first foreign leaders to visit the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, on 16 March, when the city remained under constant Russian bombardment. Fiala’s Government provided Ukrainian refugees with material help, and immediate and unconditional access to health care, education and the job market. Although public opinion largely supported these measures, they were subject to criticism from ANO and SPD politicians.</p>
               <p>After losing the prime ministerial office and thus unintentionally resolving his conflict of interest, Babiš moved into a new political role. While he did not obstruct the investiture of the new cabinet, he immediately became its most vocal opposition critic. Although in late March 2022 Babiš was formally charged with fraud in relation to the Stork’s Nest case, in mid-May he began travelling across the country in a caravan bearing the slogans `Times were better under Babiš’ and `Times will be better again’. The former Prime Minister long denied that he was launching a new election campaign and then claimed that his campaigning related to forthcoming municipal and senatorial election to be held in October. However, many suspected that he was preparing to declare his candidacy in the presidential contest, scheduled for January 2023.</p>
               <p>In June 2022 the unity of the ruling coalition was put to the test when a major corruption affair erupted, implicating members of Prague City Council and prominent STAN politicians. The scandal resulted in the resignation of Petr Gazdik, the party’s Deputy President, and Minister of Education, Youth and Sports. Throughout the following months the opposition continued to put pressure on the Government, demanding that STAN leader and Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan also resign. However, the coalition partners remained united, and on 2 September they defeated a motion of no confidence initiated by ANO and SPD in the Chamber of Deputies. The opposition was successful in the municipal elections held in October, in which STAN performed poorly. ANO was placed first in the majority of regional capitals and the far-right SPD significantly increased its municipal councillors. However, the anti-Government rhetoric did not prevent ANO from participating in municipal coalitions with the largest government party, the ODS, in many cities and towns. Furthermore, the government parties triumphed in the concurrent elections to renew one-third of the Senate, traditionally characterized by low rates of voter turnout, benefiting right-wing parties. Following the elections, the Government controlled 58 of the 81 seats in the upper house and was supported by additional independent senators.</p>
               <p>
        The Czech Republic assumed the rotating presidency of the Council of the EU for the second half of 2022. The Fiala administration achieved several remarkable accomplishments. It helped to unite the EU member states against Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, with, 
        <i>inter alia</i>
        , the adoption of three sanctions packages against Russia and its ally, Belarus, the suspension of a visa facilitation agreement with Russia, and financial support to Ukraine amounting to some €18,000m. The Czech Government navigated the Union through an unprecedented energy crisis. Under its leadership, the bloc reduced its dependence on Russia’s energy exports, capped energy prices and set up joint natural gas purchases. The EU member states also reached agreement on the environmental `Fit for 55’ legislative package. The highlight of the Czech presidency was the inaugural summit of the new European Political Community, held in Prague on 6 October. The six-month term was subsequently described by European Commission Vice-President Frans Timmermans as one of the most successful EU presidencies that he had witnessed in his career as an EU official.
      </p>
               <p>Domestically, the cost of living crisis continued in 2023. Although energy costs for households and firms were gradually controlled through joint European efforts, and a national cap on electricity and natural gas prices was adopted in October 2022, inflation continued to rise sharply. For months its levels (15%-18%) remained among the highest in the EU and twice as high as the bloc’s average. The Czech Republic’s poverty rate remained the lowest in the EU, at 8.7% in December according to Eurostat, but Czech analysts questioned the accuracy of this statistic, pointing out that it did not include citizen debt. The Government’s popularity in public opinion polls declined, and by February-March 2023 fell to the lowest rating among all cabinets since 2014. This environment motivated another attempted vote of no confidence by the parliamentary opposition, which failed on 19 January 2023. Popular dissatisfaction was further fuelled and instrumentalized by a loose coalition of populist and extremist activists, who included the leader of an extraparliamentary party, Právo Respekt Odbornost (PRO—Law, Respect, Expertise), Jindřich Rajchl, and newly elected independent senator Jana Zwyrtek Hamplová. Some of these activists organized a series of significant anti-Government protests, which were held on 3 September, 28 September and 28 October 2022, and on 11 March and 16 April 2023. These demonstrations spread pro-Russian and disinformation narratives, and on 11 March escalated into violence against the police when demonstrators unsuccessfully attempted to remove a Ukrainian flag from the building of the National Museum. They were attended by tens of thousands of dissatisfied citizens, but lacked broader societal support and backing from parliamentary parties. However, the Government’s announcement of a new austerity package in May, with the aim of consolidating public finances, prompted the trade unions to declare a state of alert and threaten the Government with a general strike. By the end of the month it seemed that the Government could face more generalized unrest.</p>
          </gen-section>
          <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
               <heading>The 2023 Presidential Election</heading>
               <p>
        Against the background of the economic crisis, Zeman completed his second presidential term. Zeman’s last year in office was characterized by a formal departure from his pro
        
        -Russian position, dictated by Russia’s aggression against Ukraine, and general political passivity due to his failing health. It was tarnished by controversial pardons granted to Milos Balák, head of the presidential forest administration; Jana Nečasová, the wife of former Prime Minister Nečas; and a law firm. Critics of the President regarded the pardons, for some of which no official justification was provided, as indicative of how opaquely and kleptocratically the presidential office was managed under Zeman.
      </p>
               <p>The official group of presidential candidates crystallized in November 2022, when only nine figures fulfilled the requirements of 50,000 citizen signatures or parliamentary support for contesting the election. According to pre-election polls, the main favourite before the first round was 68-year-old Babiš, who waited to announce his candidacy until 30 October. He faced two main challengers: retired army general and former Chairman of the NATO Military Committee Petr Pavel (aged 61), and university professor and the only female candidate Danuše Nerudová (aged 44). They both represented a liberal current in Czech politics that opposed Zeman's cultural conservatism and presidential style balancing on the verge of constitutionality. In contrast, Babiš, supported by the incumbent Zeman, incarnated continuity. </p>
               <p>The polarized election campaign, perceived by observers as a choice between democratic liberalism and autocratically leaning populism, received extensive media coverage and resulted in the highest voter turnout rates in national elections in 25 years (68.2% in the first round and 70.2% in the second round). Unlike his rivals, Babiš could rely on his media empire for support. Furthermore, in early January 2023, shortly before the first round on 13-14 January, a major first-instance court verdict acquitted Babiš of the charges relating to the Stork’s Nest case, lending credence to his assertions of innocence. At around the same time, trade unionist leader Josef Středula withdrew from the election in favour of Nerudová. However, Nerudová performed poorly in television debates and had to justify her role in scandals that emerged from the time of her rectorship at Mendel University in Brno. She was thus placed third in the first round, with only 13.9% of the votes cast. A strong performance in presidential debates, which Babiš had long avoided, helped Pavel to win 35.4% of the votes cast, narrowly ahead of Babiš with 35.0%. Prior to the second round, Babiš’s team orchestrated a virulent disinformation campaign, accusing the former general of planning to drag the Czech Republic into a war. Pavel responded by organizing massively attended support rallies across the country. He clearly outperformed Babiš in television debates, and ultimately in the second-round contest, winning a decisive 58.3% of the votes while Babiš received 41.7%. Although Pavel was perceived as being closer to the unpopular Fiala cabinet, Babiš’s character, weaker oratory skills and political scandals proved too great an obstacle to rallying broader support.</p>
               <p>
        Pavel’s election returned prestige and energy to the presidency, reminiscent of the first post-communist President, Václav Havel. Even before Pavel formally took office on 9 March 2023, he gave interviews to leading world media outlets, including US broadcasting network CNN and the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC). Due to his reputation as a war hero, honoured with, 
        <i>inter alia</i>
        , US, French and Czech medals, and his good command of English, he immediately became a popular voice on the international stage. In stark contrast to the last months in office of his older predecessor, Pavel took a proactive and transparent approach to the presidency. During his first months in office he engaged in the country’s foreign policy, visited all the neighbouring countries, but also travelled to the Czech Republic’s most deprived regions. He consistently professed strong pro-Western views and, when visiting the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, in late April, declared that Ukraine fully deserved to accede to the EU and NATO. 
      </p>
          </gen-section>
     </gen-section>
</country-survey>