<?xml version="1.0"?>
<intro-survey id="RO.IS" id-root="ro.is" iso="ro" original-filename="rominsu.rtf" usage="ewyb"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <country-head>Romania</country-head>
     <is-section id="RO.IS.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
          <heading>Introductory Survey</heading>
          <is-section id="RO.IS.2" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Location, Climate, Language, Religion, Flag, Capital</heading>
               <p id="RO.IS.3">Romania lies in South-Eastern Europe, bounded to the north and east by Ukraine, to the north-east by Moldova, to the north-west by Hungary, to the south-west by Serbia and to the south by Bulgaria. The south-east coast is washed by the Black Sea. Romania has hot summers and cold winters, with moderate rainfall. The average summer temperature is 23°C (73°F) and the winter average is −3°C (27°F). The official language is Romanian, although minority groups speak Hungarian (Magyar), German and other languages. Most of the inhabitants profess Christianity, and about 86% of the population are adherents of the Romanian Orthodox Church. The national flag (proportions 3 by 5) consists of three equal vertical stripes, of blue, yellow and red. The capital is Bucharest (Bucureşti).</p>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="RO.IS.4" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Contemporary Political History</heading>
               <is-section id="RO.IS.12646973131" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Historical Context</heading>
                    <p id="RO.IS.5">Formerly part of the Ottoman Empire, Romania became an independent kingdom in 1881. Romania entered the Second World War as an ally of Nazi Germany. Soviet forces entered Romania in 1944, when the pro-Nazi regime was overthrown. Under Soviet pressure, King Michael (Mihail) I accepted the appointment of a communist-led coalition Government in March 1945. In 1947 the small Partidul Comunist Romãn (PCR—Romanian Communist Party) merged with the Partidul Social Democrat (Social Democratic Party) to become the Partidul Muncitoresc Romãn (PMR—Romanian Workers’ Party). King Michael was forced to abdicate on 30 December, when the Romanian People’s Republic was proclaimed. The republic’s first Constitution was adopted in 1948.</p>
                    <p id="RO.IS.6">In 1952, following a purge of the PMR membership, a new Constitution, closer to the Soviet model, was adopted. Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej, the First Secretary of the PMR, became Romania’s unchallenged leader. Following his death in 1965, he was succeeded as First Secretary of the PMR by Nicolae Ceauşescu, a Secretary of the PMR Central Committee since 1954. In June 1965 the PMR again became the PCR, and Ceauşescu’s post of First Secretary was restyled General Secretary. A new Constitution, adopted in August, changed the country’s name to the Socialist Republic of Romania. In order to strengthen his position, Ceauşescu (who became President of the Republic in 1974) implemented frequent changes in the PCR leadership and the Government. In March 1980 his wife, Elena, became a First Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers.</p>
                    <p id="RO.IS.8">In November 1987 demonstrators stormed the local PCR headquarters in the city of Braşov, protesting against declining living standards and working conditions. Similar protests followed in other cities. In March 1988 Ceauşescu announced details of a rural urbanization programme, entailing the demolition of some 8,000 villages, and the resettlement of their residents (mostly ethnic Hungarians) in new agro-industrial centres’. In December 1989 there was unrest in the western city of Timişoara as supporters of László Tökés, a Protestant clergyman (an ethnic Hungarian), demonstrated their opposition to his eviction from his church. Security forces opened fire on protesters, reportedly killing several hundred people. There were reports of protests elsewhere, and the country’s borders were closed. On 21 December President Ceauşescu attended a mass rally in Bucharest, intended to demonstrate popular support. However, anti-Government demonstrations followed later in the day, leading to clashes between protesters and members of the Securitate (the secret police force), during which many civilians were killed. The disturbances spread to other parts of the country, and on the following day Ceauşescu declared a state of emergency; however, soldiers of the regular army declared their support for the protesters. Nicolae and Elena Ceauşescu escaped from the PCR Central Committee headquarters by helicopter as demonstrators stormed the building. The Ceauşescus were captured near Tãrgovişte and, on 25 December, after a summary trial, were executed.</p>
                    <p id="RO.IS.14">Meanwhile, a 145-member Frontul Salvării Naţionale (FSN—National Salvation Front) was formed, and a provisional Government was established. Ion Iliescu, a former Secretary of the PCR Central Committee, became interim President, and academic Petre Roman was appointed Prime Minister. The new Government immediately decreed an end to the PCR’s constitutional monopoly of power, and cancelled the rural urbanization programme. The PCR was banned, it was announced that free elections would be held in 1990, and the designation of Socialist Republic was abandoned. By early January 1990 the army had restored order, and the Securitate was abolished. According to official figures, 689 people were killed during the revolution.</p>
                    <p id="RO.IS.15">Special military tribunals were established to try Ceauşescu’s associates. In February 1990 four senior PCR officials were found guilty of responsibility for the shootings in Timişoara and Bucharest and were sentenced to life imprisonment. In September Ceauşescu’s son, Nicu, received a 20-year prison sentence. (He was released in 1992 on grounds of ill health, and died in 1996.) Gen. Iulian Vlad, the former head of the Securitate, was sentenced to 12 years’ imprisonment in 1991, but was released in January 1994 as part of a general amnesty.</p>
               </is-section>
               <is-section id="RO.IS.12646973571" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Domestic Political Affairs</heading>
                    <p id="RO.IS.16">The FSN’s announcement, in January 1990, that it was to contest the forthcoming elections, and its reversal of the prohibition of the PCR, increased fears that members of the former regime were attempting to regain power. In February the FSN agreed to share power with the opposition, pending the elections, in a 180-member Consiliul Provizoriu de Uniune Naţională (CPUN—Provisional National Unity Council). The CPUN was subsequently expanded to 253 members; nevertheless, FSN members and supporters occupied 111 seats in the Council. The CPUN elected an Executive Bureau, with Iliescu as its President. Opposition to the FSN persisted, particularly in the armed forces, and anti-Government demonstrations were staged to demand the resignation of Iliescu. On 20 May Iliescu won 85.1% of the votes cast in the presidential poll. In the concurrent elections to the bicameral legislature, the FSN won 65% of the vote, securing 263 of the 387 seats in the Camera Deputaţilor (Chamber of Deputies) and 91 of the 119 seats in the Senatul (Senate).</p>
                    <p id="RO.IS.18">In June 1990 a protest in Bucharest escalated into renewed clashes, in which the armed forces opened fire on rioters. Following an appeal by Iliescu, some 10,000 miners intervened to suppress the protesters; at least seven people were killed in the violence. Following President Iliescu’s inauguration in late June, Roman was reappointed Prime Minister, and a new Council of Ministers was formed. In the following months popular discontent with the deteriorating economic situation resulted in widespread strike action and further protests. In April 1991 Roman allocated three government portfolios to opposition politicians.</p>
                    <p id="RO.IS.20">In September 1991 miners, by this time opposed to President Iliescu, began a strike supporting demands for pay increases and the resignation of the Government. Thousands travelled to Bucharest, attacking government offices and the parliament building. Four people were killed, and the Council of Ministers was obliged to resign. Theodor Stolojan, a former Minister of Finance, was appointed as Prime Minister of a coalition Government formed in October.</p>
                    <p id="RO.IS.21">A new Constitution, enshrining a multi-party system, was approved by the legislature in November 1991 and was endorsed by some 77.3% of voters in a referendum in December. Following local elections in February-April 1992 the FSN divided, and in April the faction loyal to Iliescu was registered as the Frontul Democrat al Salvării Nationale (FDSN—Democratic National Salvation Front). Legislative and presidential elections took place on 27 September. The FDSN won 117 of the 328 elective seats in the Chamber of Deputies and 49 of the 143 seats in the Senate, becoming the largest party in the new Parlamentul (Parliament), while the centre-right Convenţia Democrată Romãnă (CDR—Romanian Democratic Convention), an alliance of 18 parties and organizations, including the Partidul Naţional Ţărănesc Creştin Democrat (PNŢ-CD—Christian-Democratic National Peasants’ Party), obtained 82 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and 34 in the Senate. Roman’s FSN secured only 43 and 18 seats, respectively. In the presidential election, the two leading candidates, Iliescu and Emil Constantinescu, representing the CDR, pro­ceeded to a second round of voting on 11 October, at which Iliescu won 61.4% of the votes cast. In November Nicolae Văcăroiu, an economist, formed a Government comprising FDSN members and independents. The FDSN subsequently absorbed three other parties and was reconstituted as the Partidul Democraţiei Sociale in Romãnia (PDSR—Party of Social Democracy of Romania), and the FSN was renamed the Partidul Democrat—Frontul Salvării Naţionale (PD—FSN, Democratic Party—National Salvation Front).</p>
                    <p id="RO.IS.23">The abolition of price subsidies for many basic commodities and services, from May 1993, precipitated renewed labour unrest, and in November a mass protest march was staged in Bucharest. In November 1995 Iliescu approved legislation providing for the restitution of property confiscated by the communist regime in the late 1940s and 1950s.</p>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>The Legislative and Presidential Elections of 1996</heading>
                         <p id="RO.IS.29">Legislative and presidential elections took place on 3 November 1996. The CDR won 122 of the 328 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and 53 of the 143 seats in the Senate. The PDSR took 91 and 41 seats in the respective chambers, and the Uniunea Social Democrata (USD—Social Democratic Union), formed by the PD—FSN and the Partidul Social Democrat Roman (PSDR—Romanian Social Democratic Party) in January, won 53 and 23. An agreement on political co-operation was reached between the CDR and the USD. In the first round of the presidential election, contested by 16 candidates, Iliescu won 32.3% of the valid votes cast, and Constantinescu took 28.2%. Constantinescu was duly elected in a second round on 17 November, with 54.4% of the votes. Victor Ciorbea of the CDR, the Mayor of Bucharest, was nominated as Prime Minister, and in mid-December a new coalition Government, comprising the CDR, the USD and the Uniunea Democrată Maghiară din Romãnia (UDMR—Democratic Alliance of Hungarians in Romania), took office.</p>
                         <p id="RO.IS.30">The Government restored citizenship to former King Michael, who visited Romania in February 1997. The arrest, in February, of Miron Cozma, the leader of the earlier miners’ demonstrations, prompted further protests from miners and their trade union leaders. In January 1998 the removal of the PD (as the PD—FSN had been renamed) Minister of Transport, Traian Băsescu, prompted the party to demand his reinstatement, and PD ministers eventually withdrew from the Government. Ciorbea and his Government resigned, amid continuing pressure, in March. Radu Vasile, the Secretary-General of the PNŢ-CD, was designated Prime Minister of a new Council of Ministers in April.</p>
                         <p id="RO.IS.36">
            In January 1999 a strike by miners escalated when Vasile refused to negotiate with Cozma, who had been released from prison in mid-1998, after serving an 18-month sentence for the possession of firearms and ammunition. Encouraged by nationalist politicians (notably from the Partidul Romãnia Mare—PRM—Greater Romania Party), 10,000-20,000 miners marched towards Bucharest, and in Costeşti, north-west of Bucharest, violent clashes broke out with the security forces. Following emergency talks between the Prime Minister and miners’ leaders, a temporary agreement was reached. The Minister of the Interior, Gavril Dejeu, resigned, amid criticism of the security forces’ failure to halt the march. In February 1999 the Supreme Court of Justice sentenced Cozma, 
            <i>in absentia</i>
            , to 18 years’ imprisonment for undermining state authority. In protest, approximately 2,000-4,000 miners, led by Cozma, again marched towards Bucharest. The miners were intercepted by the security forces some 160 km west of Bucharest, and one miner died during the ensuing violence; Cozma and several hundred miners were arrested. (In June 2002 Cozma was sentenced to an additional 12 years’ imprisonment for his involvement in the 1999 violence; he was released in 2007.)
          </p>
                         <p id="RO.IS.40">In November 1999 students and trade union members began protest rallies and strike action to demand the resignation of the Government. In mid-December Constantinescu dismissed Vasile, after all seven PNŢ-CD government ministers and the three ministers of the Partidul Naţional Liberal (PNL—National Liberal Party) resigned from the Government. Constantinescu nominated Mugur Isărescu, hitherto Governor of the National Bank of Romania, as Prime Minister. The legislature subsequently approved the appointment of Isărescu’s Council of Ministers, which remained largely unchanged, although Roman became Minister of State and Minister of Foreign Affairs. Vasile was expelled from the PNŢ-CD later that month. Following local elections in June 2000, Băsescu left the Government, after being elected as Mayor of Bucharest. In September the PSDR withdrew from the governing coalition, announcing that it was to merge with the PDSR.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>The Legislative and Presidential Elections of 2000</heading>
                         <p id="RO.IS.44">Legislative and presidential elections took place concurrently on 26 November 2000. The PDSR secured 155 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and 65 in the Senate, while the PRM obtained 84 and 37 seats, respectively. The rate of voter participation was 57.5%. In the presidential election, former President Iliescu obtained 36.4% of the votes cast and Corneliu Vadim Tudor of the PRM won 28.3%. A second round was held on 10 December, when Iliescu won 66.8% of the votes cast. Later in December Iliescu nominated Adrian Năstase of the PDSR as Prime Minister. Năstase subsequently signed an agreement with the leaders of the UDMR, the PNL and the PD, the support of these parties enabling the PDSR to form a minority Government. The new, expanded Council of Ministers was sworn in on 28 December.</p>
                         <p id="RO.IS.48">In June 2001 the PDSR and the PSDR formally merged, creating the Partidul Social Democrat (PSD—Social Democratic Party), under the leadership of Prime Minister Năstase. Large-scale protests against the Government’s austerity programme were staged in Bucharest later that year. In September 2002 the Senate approved a new law on political parties, which required all parties to re-register by 31 December, and to comprise a minimum of 10,000 members from at least 21 of Romania’s 41 administrative subdivisions.</p>
                         <p id="RO.IS.89">
            In June 2003 Năstase reorganized the Council of Ministers. In a referendum held on 18-19 October some 90% of the votes cast by 55.7% of the electorate approved 79 proposed amendments to the Constitution, in conformity with 
            <xr pageref="Y" ref="WB02047.IO.TXT">European Union (EU)</xr>
             requirements. The revised Constitution entered into force on 29 October.
          </p>
                         <p id="RO.IS.91">In August 2004 charges of abuse of office and embezzlement were brought against Băsescu (who had been re-elected Mayor of Bucharest in June). In September the PSD and the Partidul Umanist Romãn (PUR—Humanist Party of Romania) formed an electoral alliance, the Uniunea Naţională (National Union). Meanwhile, the PNL and the PD announced their intention to contest the forthcoming legislative elections as the Alianţa Dreptate şi Adevăr (DA—Justice and Truth Alliance).</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>The Legislative and Presidential Elections of 2004</heading>
                         <p id="RO.IS.92">Legislative and presidential elections were held on 28 November 2004. The Uniunea Naţională emerged as the largest bloc in both chambers, with 132 seats (of a total 332) in the Chamber of Deputies and 57 seats (of a total 137) in the Senate. The DA received 112 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and 49 in the Senate. The representation of the PRM was markedly reduced, to 48 deputies in the lower chamber, and 21 in the upper chamber. Following the presidential ballot, Năstase (with 40.9% of the votes) and Băsescu (with 33.9%) proceeded to a second round of voting on 12 December, when Băsescu achieved a narrow victory, with 51.2% of the votes cast. Băsescu was inaugurated as President on 20 December (thus gaining immunity from prosecution). Năstase was elected as Chairman of the Chamber of Deputies, and Văcăroiu, a Deputy Chairman of the PSD, was elected as Chairman of the Senate. Băsescu nominated PNL leader Călin Popescu-Tăriceanu to form a government. The PUR (subsequently renamed the Partidul Conservator (PC—Conservative Party) agreed to form a coalition with the PNL, the PD and the UDMR. On 28 December the new Council of Ministers was approved by both legislative chambers.</p>
                         <p id="RO.IS.94">Following warnings that Romania’s planned accession to the EU in 2007 could be subject to delay unless measures were taken to combat corruption, in early 2006 a number of political figures came under investigation. In February Năstase (who had been replaced as President of the PSD by former foreign minister Mircea Geoană) was indicted on charges of bribery pertaining to the acquisition of land in 1998. Năstase resigned as Chairman of the Chamber of Deputies in March 2006, following a vote of no confidence by the PSD; he was succeeded by Bogdan Olteanu of the PNL. In December the PC announced its withdrawal from the coalition Government, prompting the resignation of two ministers and ending the parliamentary majority commanded by Popescu-Tăriceanu.</p>
                         <p>In February 2007 Mihai Ungureanu resigned as Minister of Foreign Affairs. Băsescu refused to endorse the Prime Minister’s nomination of a PNL representative, Adrian Cioroianu, to the post. At the beginning of April Popescu-Tăriceanu accused Băsescu of provoking dissension within the Government and ended his party’s coalition with the PD, thereby removing eight PD ministers. He formed a new minority Government, comprising representatives of the PNL and the UDMR, which was approved by Parliament, with the support of the PSD, on 3 April. Cioroianu became Minister of Foreign Affairs. On 19 April a motion initiated by the PSD to suspend Băsescu from office on grounds of unconstitutional conduct (by creating political instability, pressurizing the judiciary and interfering in government affairs) was approved by Parliament, after receiving the support of the ruling coalition deputies. At a national referendum, held on 19 May, Băsescu’s removal from office was opposed by 74.5% of those who voted. Băsescu was reinstated as President on 23 May.</p>
                         <p>On 25 November 2007 elections to 35 seats in the European Parliament were conducted. The PD won 13 seats and the PSD 10 seats, while the PNL secured six seats and its coalition partner, the UDMR, two seats; the Partidul Liberal Democrat (PLD—Liberal Democratic Party—formed by breakaway members of the PNL, and led by Stolojan) won three seats, and the remaining seat was obtained by an independent. In December the PD merged with the PLD to form the Partidul Democrat Liberal (PD-L—Democratic Liberal Party), under the leadership of Emil Boc (previously President of the PD).</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>The Legislative and Presidential Elections of 2008-09</heading>
                         <p>Following lengthy controversy, electoral reforms providing for the introduction of a mixed electoral system were adopted in March 2008. Elections to the bicameral legislature were conducted under the new system on 30 November. The PD-L marginally secured the greatest representation in both chambers, with 115 of the total 334 seats in the Chamber of Deputies (32.4% of the votes cast), and 51 of 137 seats in the Senate (33.6% of the votes); the PSD, allied with the PC, won 114 seats (33.1%) in the Chamber of Deputies and 49 seats (34.2%) in the Senate, and the PNL 65 seats (18.6%) in the Chamber of Deputies and 28 seats (18.7%) in the Senate. In early December Băsescu invited former Prime Minister Stolojan, of the PD-L, to establish a new administration; however, Stolojan ceded the nomination to Boc. Following a coalition agreement between the PD-L and the PSD, a new Government comprising members of both parties was approved by the legislature on 22 December. The Vice-President of the PSD, Dan Nica, became Deputy Prime Minister. Crin Antonescu was elected President of the PNL in March 2009, defeating Popescu-Tăriceanu.</p>
                         <p>At elections to the European Parliament, conducted on 7 June 2009, the PSD-PC alliance secured 11 of the country’s 33 seats. The PD-L obtained 10 seats, the PNL five seats, and the UDMR and the PRM three seats each; one independent candidate, Elena Băsescu, the daughter of the President, was elected. Only 27.7% of the electorate participated in the voting.</p>
                         <p>Nica was dismissed from the Government in September 2009, after he made comments regarding the potential for fraud in the forthcoming presidential election, causing the PSD to withdraw in protest from the ruling coalition at the beginning of October. In mid-October Parliament approved a motion of no confidence in Boc’s minority Government. In early November Băsescu designated Liviu Negoiţă of the PD-L as Prime Minister.</p>
                         <p>At the first round of the presidential election, on 22 November 2009, Băsescu secured 32.4% of the votes cast, followed by Geoană of the PSD, with 31.2%, and PNL leader Antonescu, with 20.0%. A rate of voter participation of 54.4% was recorded. Băsescu narrowly defeated Geoană in a second round of presidential voting on 6 December, securing 50.3% of the votes cast; 58.0% of the electorate participated in the ballot. The PSD and the PC challenged the results, citing electoral violations, but the Constitutional Court rejected their appeal. On 17 December Băsescu nominated acting Prime Minister Boc to form a new government, after Negoiţă resigned as Prime Minister-designate. Băsescu was inaugurated to serve a second term as President on 21 December. On 23 December Parliament approved Boc’s new Council of Ministers, which largely comprised representatives of the PD-L and the UDMR.</p>
                         <p>Victor Ponta became President of the PSD in February 2010. On 15 June the Government narrowly defeated a no confidence vote in parliament, initiated over proposed economic austerity measures. In September Prime Minister Boc replaced six ministers, including those responsible for finance and the economy, prompting demands for his resignation from within the PD-L. At the end of the month the Minister of Administration and the Interior, Vasile Blaga, resigned from his post. Boc subsequently survived three further votes of no confidence in Parliament.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="RO.IS.13366434091" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>PSD-led Government and the 2012 Elections</heading>
                         <p>In February 2011 the PNL and the PC signed an agreement with the PSD, establishing an alliance known as the Uniunea Social Liberală (USL—Social-Liberal Union). In November Geoană was expelled from the PSD, after being accused of attempting to destabilize the opposition alliance.</p>
                         <p>Large-scale public protests took place throughout January 2012, accusing the Government of corruption and demanding early legislative elections. On 6 February Boc’s Government resigned. Băsescu nominated a former chief of the intelligence services, Mihai Răzvan Ungureanu, to form a new government, which retained just seven ministers from Boc’s outgoing cabinet. Meanwhile, in January former Prime Minister Năstase was sentenced to two years’ imprisonment on charges relating to the use of public funds to pay for his 2004 election campaign. (In January 2014 Năstase received further prison sentences, for accepting bribes, and for blackmail, but he was released in August.) In April 2012 Ungureanu’s Government collapsed, following defections from the ruling PD-L to the opposition USL alliance, and amid continuing public protests against austerity measures. A new Government, led by the President of the PSD, Ponta, took office on 7 May, pending legislative elections later that year.</p>
                         <p>On 6 July 2012 Parliament voted to suspend Băsescu from office for 30 days, and announced that a referendum would take place to seek public approval for his impeachment, on the grounds that he had exceeded his authority. Antonescu became interim President. The referendum took place on 29 July. However, although some 89% of voters supported impeachment, only 46.2% of the electorate participated, and the Constitutional Court confirmed in a ruling on 21 August that a rate of participation of more than 50% of the electorate was required for the vote to be considered valid.</p>
                         <p>In September 2012 former premier Ungureanu was elected leader of the centre-right Forţa Civică (Civic Force), which joined the PD-L and the PNŢ-CD to form the Alianţa Romãnia Dreaptă (ARD—Romanian Alliance of the Right), prior to legislative elections. The PSD also established an alliance with the Uniunea Naţională pentru Progresul Romãniei (UNPR—National Union for the Progress of Romania). Elections to both parliamentary chambers on 9 December resulted in victory for the USL (by this time also comprising the UNPR); the four coalition parties together secured 58.6% of the votes cast and 273 seats in the Chamber of Deputies (which had been expanded to 412 seats) and 60.1% of the votes and 122 seats in the Senate (enlarged to 176 seats). The ARD received 16.5% of the votes and 56 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and 16.7% of the votes and 24 seats in the Senate, and the Partidul Poporului—Dan Diaconescu (PP—DD, People’s Party—Dan Diaconescu), led by journalist and businessman Diaconescu, obtained 14.0% of the votes and 47 seats in the lower chamber and 14.7% and 21 seats in the upper chamber. The rate of voter participation was 41.8%. On 21 December Parliament approved a new coalition Government, again under the premiership of Ponta, comprising representatives of the UNPR, as well as of the other three USL parties.</p>
                         <p>On 10 June 2013 a constitutional revision committee, which had been established by the Government in February, approved an amendment providing for the presidential term to be reduced from five to four years, with effect from the 2014 elections. The committee also approved legislation, agreed by both parliamentary chambers in May 2013, under which the minimum required turnout for a referendum would be reduced from 50% to 30% of the registered electorate and the majority necessary for a vote in favour would be lowered to 25%; referendums could henceforth be initiated by the President or by at least 250,000 registered voters from at least one-half of Romania’s counties.</p>
                         <p>On 25 February 2014 the PNL withdrew from the Government, after the party decided to replace its representatives in the Government and Ponta refused to accept one of its nominated candidates. The UDMR subsequently agreed to replace the PNL in the coalition, and a reconstituted Government was approved by Parliament on 4 March.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="RO.IS.13949571061" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>The 2014 Presidential Election</heading>
                         <p>At elections to the European Parliament on 25 May 2014, a coalition of the PSD, the PC and the UNPR secured 16 of the 32 seats allocated to Romania, the PNL obtained six seats, the PD-L five seats, the UDMR two seats, and the Partidul Mişcarea Populară (PMP—People’s Movement Party), newly formed by Băsescu, two seats. The rate of participation was 32.2%. On the following day Antonescu resigned as leader of the PNL, owing to the party’s poor electoral performance. He was succeeded in June by Klaus Iohannis, an ethnic German who had previously led a minority German party in Romania.</p>
                         <p>By September 2014 some 14 candidates were registered to contest the forthcoming presidential election, notably including Ponta, representing the PSD, Iohannis, Popescu-Tăriceanu (who was contesting the poll independently), Diaconescu of the PP—DD and former Minister of Justice Monica Macovei. In the first round of the presidential election, conducted on 2 November, Ponta received 40.4% of the votes cast, followed by Iohannis, with 30.4%. Protests demanding the resignations of Ponta and his Minister of Foreign Affairs, Titus Corlăţean, erupted in several towns in Romania, as well as in European capitals, after members of the Romanian diaspora were unable to vote owing to organizational difficulties, and on 10 November Corlăţean resigned. The second round of the election on 16 November was won by Iohannis, with 54.4% of the votes. The rate of participation was 53.2% in the first round and 64.1% in the second. An independent, Bogdan Aurescu, was appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs later in November. After the UDMR withdrew from the Government, on 17 December Parliament approved a reorganized Council of Ministers led by Ponta, comprising members of the PSD, the UNPR (which subsequently absorbed the PP—DD), the PC, the new Partidul Liberal Reformator (PLR—Liberal Reformist Party—formed by Popescu-Tăriceanu) and independents. Meanwhile, Iohannis resigned from the leadership of the PNL prior to taking office as President on 21 December.</p>
                         <p>In early 2015 several former ministers received terms of imprisonment on corruption charges. In March Diaconescu received a prison sentence of five-and-a-half years, and was prohibited from seeking public office for a period of three years after his release. In May Liviu Dragnea, a deputy premier until the previous December, resigned as Minister of Regional Development and Public Administration, after he received a suspended sentence on charges of facilitating electoral fraud during the 2012 referendum on the impeachment of Băsescu. He was replaced by Sevil Shhaideh. In June 2015 the Alianţa Liberalilor şi Democraţilor (ALDE—Alliance of Liberals and Democrats Party) was formed by the merger of the PLR and the PC; Popescu-Tăriceanu and the erstwhile leader of the PC, Daniel Constantin, became joint Co-Presidents of the party. On 12 July Ponta resigned as Chairman of the PSD, after the Direcţia Naţională Anticorupţie (DNA) opened a criminal investigation against him; however, he refused to comply with demands from Iohannis and opposition leaders for his resignation as Prime Minister. On the following day Ponta was indicted on charges that included tax evasion, money laundering and malpractice while working as a lawyer in 2007-08. The trial of Ponta and four others officially commenced at the High Court of Cassation and Justice in September 2015; however, his Government survived a motion of no confidence later that month. (Ponta was acquitted in May 2018.) Meanwhile, the longstanding Mayor of Bucharest, Oprescu, was removed in mid-September 2015, after being detained on suspicion of corruption. On 12 October Dragnea was elected unopposed as President of the PSD.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="RO.IS.14581486711" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>The 2016 Legislative Elections</heading>
                         <p>On 30 October 2015 some 26 people were killed in a fire at a Bucharest night club (and some 38 later died in hospital); a number of officials were charged with causing death through negligence. On 3 November large-scale anti-corruption protests were staged outside government buildings in Bucharest and other major cities to demand the resignation of Ponta, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Internal Affairs Gabriel Oprea and the local mayor, following revelations that the club had received an operating licence without a valid permit from the fire department. Ponta submitted the resignation of his Government on the following day. Nevertheless, protests in support of demands for early elections continued. On 10 November Iohannis appointed Dacian Cioloş, a former European Commissioner, to the post of Prime Minister, and his new, non-party Government was approved on 17 November. In March 2016 Oprea announced his resignation as Chairman of the UNPR, after additional charges of abuse of office brought by the DNA. After four ministers left office during April and May, Cioloş effected a government reorganization on 5 July.</p>
                         <p>Elections to both legislative chambers on 11 December 2016 were conducted under a system of party-list proportional representation (restored by an electoral law adopted in July 2015). The PSD emerged as the leading party, securing 154 seats in the Chamber of Deputies (with 45.5% of the votes) and 67 seats (45.7%) in the Senate, while the representation of the PNL fell to 69 seats (20.0%) and 30 seats (20.4%), respectively, reflecting a loss of popular support. The third-placed party was the newly reconstituted, anti-corruption Uniunea Salvaţi Romănia (USR—Save Romania Union), with 30 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and 13 in the Senate. A rate of participation by the electorate of only 39.4% was recorded. Later that month PSD leader Dragnea signed a coalition agreement with ALDE Co-Presidents Popescu-Tăriceanu and Constantin. On 21 December Dragnea was appointed as President of the Chamber of Deputies (he was unable to become Prime Minister owing to his conviction). After its initial nomination of Shhaideh was rejected by Ioannis, the PSD subsequently nominated a former deputy and Minister of Communications, Sorin Mihai Grindeanu, as premier; Grindeanu was officially appointed on 30 December. On 4 January 2017 Grindeanu’s new coalition Government received legislative approval, with the support of 295 deputies. Shhaideh became Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development, Public Administration and European Union Funds, and Constantin of the ALDE became Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Environment.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Anti-Government Protests</heading>
                         <p>On 31 January 2017 the Government adopted measures by emergency decree that decriminalized cases of abuse of office and conflict of interest involving funds of less than 200,000 lei, reduced the penalties for many corruption offences and allowed some criminal sentences to be commuted. The decision precipitated international criticism and mass protests in Bucharest and other cities (reported to be the largest since 1989). The Government repealed the decree on 5 February 2017, but announced that the changes to the criminal law would be submitted to Parliament. Protests to demand the resignation of the Government continued daily, although on a smaller scale; the Government nevertheless won a motion of confidence on 8 February. Minister of Justice Florin Iordache, who had drafted the decree, resigned on the following day, and was subsequently replaced by Tudorel Toader, a former constitutional judge.</p>
                         <p>The crisis exacerbated tensions between the Government and Iohannis, who had appealed to the Constitutional Court against the decree: on 8 March 2017 Parliament adopted a statement accusing the President of `abuse of law’ and of having attempted to usurp the powers of the legislature. Further draft legislation under discussion, which had been submitted by Popescu-Tăriceanu (himself under indictment by the DNA on perjury charges) sought to prevent the President from appointing the main prosecutors of the DNA. On 3 April Iohannis (in accordance with new proposals by the ALDE) appointed Graţiela-Leocadia Gavrilescu to replace Constantin as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Environment.</p>
                         <p>At the beginning of June 2017 the leader of the USR, Nicušor Dan, resigned after the party leadership urged its members to vote against a bill to modify the Constitution to redefine a family in strictly heterosexual terms. (He was replaced by Ilie-Dan Barna in October.) The bill was approved by the Chamber of Deputies later that month and by the Senate in September 2018. Meanwhile, in June 2017 former President Ion Iliescu and former premier Petre Roman were indicted for their roles in the violent response to anti-Government protesters in Bucharest in June 1990. Iliescu, Roman and other former senior officials were also indicted by military prosecutors in April 2018 for crimes against humanity, with regard to the uprising of December 1989. (The High Court of Cassation and Justice in November 2021 ruled that the case be returned due to irregularities in the indictment, but in August 2022 it was resubmitted by the Prosecutor-General’s Office. In October 2023 the Bucharest Court of Appeal ruled that a trial should proceed.)</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Collapse of Grindeanu’s Coalition</heading>
                         <p>Meanwhile, in mid-June 2017 the PSD withdrew political support for Grindeanu’s Government, on the grounds that it had failed to fulfil the party’s governing programme; following his refusal to relinquish the premiership, members of the Council of Ministers submitted their resignations, and Grindeanu was excluded from the PSD. Grindeanu subsequently appointed new members to the cabinet, including former premier Ponta. However, on 21 June Parliament passed a motion of no confidence in Grindeanu’s Government, which was filed by the ruling coalition. Five days later Mihai Tudose, hitherto the Minister of the Economy, was nominated as Prime Minister. The new Government, in which many ministers, including Shhaideh and Minister of the Economy Carmen Dan retained their posts, was sworn in on 29 June.</p>
                         <p>In August 2017 Toader announced proposed amendments to the country’s justice laws, under which the President would no longer appoint the Prosecutor-General and the head of the DNA, and chief prosecutors would be subordinated to the Minister of Justice. The amendments, which prompted several hundred people to protest in Bucharest, were condemned by Iohannis. International concern was also expressed.</p>
                         <p>In September 2017 the DNA revealed that deputy premier Shhaideh was under investigation, together with the Minister-delegate responsible for European Funds, Rovana Plumb, over suspected abuse of office relating to the purported transfer of an island on the Danube from a state company to the administration of Teleorman County Council, before its subsequent lease to a private company connected to Dragnea. On 12 October the PSD voted in support of a government reorganization, which provided for the removal from office of both Shhaideh and Plumb; Paul Stănescu succeeded Shhaideh as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development. The DNA announced Dragnea’s prosecution in relation to the affair in mid-November, and subsequently froze his assets.</p>
                         <p>Large rallies were staged in Bucharest and other major cities on 5 November 2017, in protest against the proposed new changes to the justice legislation, which had been submitted to Parliament at the end of October. On 23 November a motion of no confidence, initiated by the PNL against the Government, was defeated. However, three days later more than 45,000 people demonstrated in Bucharest, and the leaders of the PNL and the USR, as well as former premier Cioloş, participated in further protests in December. The final two justice laws, on judicial organization and the functioning of the Superior Council of Magistracy, were adopted by the Chamber of Deputies on 13 December, and by the upper chamber one week later, prompting challenges by the USR at the Constitutional Court in early 2018.</p>
                         <p>Tudose announced his resignation in mid-January 2018, amid continued tensions with Dragnea. The PSD nominated Viorica Dăncilă (who was supportive of the justice laws) as the new premier, and the nomination was approved by Iohannis on 17 January. A new Government formed by Dăncilă (the country’s first female Prime Minister), in coalition with the ALDE, received a parliamentary vote of confidence on 29 January.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Dissension over Criminal Code Changes</heading>
                         <p>On 20 January 2018 large protests took place against the new justice laws. In the same month it was announced that the Chief Prosecutor of the DNA, Laura Codruţa Kövesi, was to be investigated for misconduct; Minister of Justice Toader subsequently announced that he had begun dismissal proceedings against her. In April Iohannis announced that he would not dismiss Kövesi, and Toader responded by referring the matter to the Constitutional Court. At the end of May the Court ruled that the President could not prevent the Government from removing Kövesi from her post, and she was dismissed by presidential decree in early July. Meanwhile, in May Iohannis announced that he was to refer new justice legislation, approved by the Senate in late March, to the Constitutional Court, also requesting that the proposed legislation be reviewed by the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe’s advisory body on legal matters.</p>
                         <p>Controversial changes to Romania’s criminal procedure code were adopted by the Chamber of Deputies on 18 June 2018, despite strong objections from international institutions, as well as magistrates and opposition figures. The following day protesters demonstrated in Bucharest against the changes; several arrests were made. As the protests continued, on 27 June the Government survived a vote of no confidence proposed by the opposition. However, on 4 July the Chamber of Deputies adopted further amendments to the criminal code (approved by the Senate on the previous day), providing for the partial decriminalization of abuse of office; opposition parties claimed that the measures were designed to allow many PSD officials suspected of corruption, including Dragnea, to evade penalties. Meanwhile, in mid-June Dragnea was sentenced by the Supreme Court to three-and-a-half years in prison for abuse of office in 2009-10 while President of Teleorman County Council. On 10 August 2018 a mass protest staged in central Bucharest to demand the resignation of the Government was forcibly dispersed by police. On 19 October the Venice Commission issued a final report, stating that the new justice legislation undermined the ability of the judiciary system to combat corruption, violence and organized crime. In the same month the Constitutional Court rejected many of the amendments to the criminal code as unconstitutional.</p>
                         <p>A major government reorganization in November 2018 notably included the dismissal of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development Stănescu, which was initially rejected by Iohannis. The President also refused to endorse the ruling PSD’s subsequent ministerial nominations. Meanwhile, following the defection of four PSD deputies to a party newly formed by former premier Ponta, PRO Romãnia (PRO Romania), in December the ruling coalition lost its majority in the Chamber of Deputies. In the same month it was announced that former premier Cioloş had formed a new party, the Partidul Libertāţii, Unitāţii şi Solidaritāţii (PLUS—Freedom, Unity and Solidarity Party). On 20 December the Government survived a vote of no confidence filed by opposition parties. Iohannis finally adopted new ministerial nominations issued by the PSD in February 2019; Daniel Suciu was appointed Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development. </p>
                         <p>
            On 19 February 2019 the Government adopted two new emergency decrees relating to the judiciary, which included amendments to the procedure for selecting senior prosecutors. The move was criticized by Iohannis as well as by the opposition and by magistrates’ associations, and prompted further large protests. In March the authorities brought abuse of office charges against former Chief Prosecutor of the DNA Kövesi, banning her from leaving the country for two months; the charges were widely dismissed as an effort to prevent her from becoming European Public Prosecutor, a new EU post for which she was the leading candidate. (Kövesi’s appointment as European Public Prosecutor was confirmed in October.) In mid-April Toader was removed as Minister of Justice at the decision of the PSD leadership, after he failed to support the emergency decrees. He was replaced by Ana Birchall of the PSD. 
            <!--https://www.euractiv.com/section/justice-home-affairs/news/romanian-lawmakers-approve-bill-that-could-close-graft-cases/-->
            On 24 April the Chamber of Deputies approved modified changes to the criminal code, which would significantly shorten the statute of limitations covering some offences, thereby potentially halting a number of ongoing criminal cases.
          </p>
                         <p>Concurrently with elections to the European Parliament on 26 May 2019, a non-binding referendum was held, in an initiative by President Iohannis to counter efforts by the PSD to weaken anti-corruption legislation. More than 85% of voters participating in the referendum (with a turnout of 41.3%) supported the President’s proposals that the Government should be barred from amending judicial legislation by means of emergency decree, and that a national ban should be introduced to prevent amnesties and pardons in corruption cases. (Nevertheless, in July the Constitutional Court ruled that a ban on amnesties and pardons for politicians convicted of corruption would be unconstitutional.) Meanwhile, at the elections to the European Parliament, the PNL became the first-placed party, winning 10 seats, while the PSD registered a considerable loss of support, obtaining eight seats; an electoral alliance of the USR and PLUS, the Alianţa USR PLUS (USR-PLUS Alliance), secured eight seats, and PRO Romãnia, the PMP and the UDMR received two seats each. A turnout of 51.2% was recorded.</p>
                         <p>On 27 May 2019 five judges upheld the sentence imposed on PSD leader Dragnea in June 2018, and he was imprisoned; he was replaced shortly afterward as Chairman of the Chamber of Deputies by Ion-Marcel Ciolacu. At a party congress on 29 June 2019 Prime Minister Dăncilă was elected as President of the PSD, replacing Dragnea. On 29 July the Constitutional Court rejected the amendments to the criminal code approved in April, stating that the changes failed to respect previous court rulings.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="RO.IS.15850583881" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Re-election of President Iohannis</heading>
                         <p>In late August 2019 ALDE leader Popescu-Tăriceanu announced the party’s withdrawal from the ruling coalition, which consequently lost its parliamentary majority, owing to a loss of confidence in Dăncilă. On 10 October Dăncilă’s Government was removed from office, after a vote of no confidence initiated by the PNL was supported by 238 parliamentary deputies. Five days later, Iohannis nominated PNL leader Ludovic Orban as Prime Minister. Orban’s new, minority Government, principally comprising PNL members, took office on 4 November, when 240 deputies in Parliament supported a vote of confidence. Vasile-Florin Cîţu of the PNL became Minister of Public Finance.</p>
                         <p>The first round of a presidential election on 10 November 2019 was contested by a total of 14 candidates; the incumbent, Iohannis, was first-placed, with 37.8% of the votes, followed by Dăncilă of the PSD, with 22.3%. In a second round of presidential voting on 24 November, Iohannis defeated Dăncilă, securing 66.1% of the votes cast and a second term in office. Voter turnout was officially recorded at 51.2% in the first round, rising to 55.1% in the second. Following Dăncilă’s poor performance, Ciolacu replaced her as party leader later that month.</p>
                         <p>
            In December 2019 13 people, including the local mayor, received prison sentences in relation to the Bucharest night club fire of October 2015. 
            <!--https://www.romania-insider.com/govt-noconfidence-motion-snap-elections-->
            A motion of no confidence proposed by the PSD against Orban’s Government was adopted on 5 February 2020, with the support of 261 parliamentary deputies. On 26 February President Iohannis nominated the Minister of Public Finance, Cîţu, to the post. However, shortly before a parliamentary vote of confidence on his proposed government, on 12 March Cîţu returned the mandate to the President, reportedly following pressure from PNL leader Orban. Iohannis reappointed Orban as Prime Minister, and his Government, which was unchanged, was returned to office on 14 March (with 286 deputies voting in favour). As the COVID-19 pandemic escalated, meanwhile, on 16 March Iohannis issued a decree declaring a state of emergency in Romania. Amid severe shortages of medical equipment, the Minister of Health resigned on 26 March. The state of emergency was extended to 14 May (after which it was succeeded by a state of alert). Restrictions were progressively eased from mid-May.
          </p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="RO.IS.16176589861" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>The 2020 Elections</heading>
                         <p>
            Following a postponement due to the pandemic, local elections were conducted on 27 September 2020. 
            <!--https://www.romania-insider.com/romania-local-elections-liberals-win-->
            The results of the polls reflected a significant increase in support for the PNL, which elected 17 county council presidents (compared with only eight in the 2016 polls), while the PSD retained 20 county council president positions. Former USR leader Nicušor Dan, an independent candidate who was supported by the PNL and the Alianţa USR PLUS, was elected as Mayor of Bucharest, defeating the incumbent, Gabriela Firea of the PSD.
          </p>
                         <p>Legislative elections were conducted on 6 December 2020 (despite an attempt by the PSD to postpone the polls until March 2021). The PSD was first-placed, but again registered a significant loss of popular support, obtaining 110 seats (with 28.9% of votes cast) in the Chamber of Deputies and 47 seats (29.3%) in the Senate, while the PNL won, respectively, 93 seats (25.2%) and 41 seats (25.6%), and the Alianţa USR PLUS 55 seats (15.4%) and 25 seats (15.9%). A newly formed nationalist party, the Alianţa Pentru Unirea Romãnilor (AUR—Gold—Alliance for the Unity of Romanians), secured 33 seats in the lower chamber (with 9.1% of the votes) and 14 in the Senate (9.2%). A voter participation rate of 31.9% was recorded.</p>
                         <p>Orban resigned as Prime Minister on 7 December 2020, and shortly afterwards (in his capacity as leader of the PNL) proposed Cîţu for the post. Later that month the PNL, the Alianţa USR PLUS and the UDMR (which together held a narrow majority in the Chamber of Deputies) announced that they had reached a coalition agreement. On 22 December Cîţu was officially nominated as Prime Minister-designate by President Iohannis and, with the support of the coalition parties, Orban was elected Chairman of the Chamber of Deputies; Anca Dragu of the Alianţa USR PLUS became Chairman of the Senate. A new Government headed by Cîţu was approved by 260 of 455 votes cast in Parliament on the following day. In accordance with the coalition agreement, USR leader Barna and UDMR President Hunor Kelemen each received a deputy premiership. The PNL retained most principal portfolios (the hitherto transport minister, Lucian Nicolae Bode, becoming Minister of Internal Affairs), while Stelian-Cristian Ion of the USR was appointed Minister of Justice.</p>
                         <p>A COVID-19 vaccination programme commenced on 27 December 2020. In April 2021 Vlad Voiculescu of the PLUS party, who had become Minister of Health the previous December, was dismissed. The USR and PLUS officially merged in mid-April, creating a single party, USR PLUS (known as USR from October 2021).</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="RO.IS.16514282661" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Recent Developments: Power-sharing Agreement</heading>
                         <p>At the end of May 2021 Prime Minister Cîţu announced that he would challenge Chairman of the Chamber of Deputies Orban for leadership of the PNL at a party congress in September. In July Cîţu dismissed the Minister of Finance, expressing dissatisfaction at the slow pace of reform in the ministry. Mounting disagreement within the ruling coalition over an investment programme for local authorities, which was proposed by Cîţu, but criticized by USR PLUS for lack of transparency, culminated in Cîţu’s dismissal of the Minister of Justice, Ion of USR PLUS, on 1 September. USR PLUS announced its withdrawal from the Government (prompting the resignation of its remaining ministers on 7 September) and brought a motion of no confidence against Cîţu’s Government, which was supported by the nationalist AUR. Nevertheless, the funding programme was adopted by emergency ordinance on 3 September. Cîţu submitted a challenge to the no confidence motion, on the grounds of constitutional procedural violations. The Constitutional Court deferred a ruling until 28 September, after the forthcoming PNL leadership congress; the postponement was criticized by incumbent PNL leader Orban. Cîţu was elected as leader of the PNL on 25 September, with 60.2% of the votes, defeating Orban, who shortly afterwards resigned as Chairman of the Chamber of Deputies and denounced President Iohannis’s endorsement of Cîţu’s candidacy. On 28 September the Constitutional Court ruled the no confidence motion brought by USR PLUS and the AUR to be valid, while on the same day the PSD submitted a motion of confidence against the Government. On 5 October the PSD motion was adopted, with 281 deputies voting in its favour, resulting in the dissolution of Cîţu’s Government.</p>
                         <p>Following party consultations, former premier Cioloş was designated as Prime Minister by President Iohannis, but on 20 October 2021 his proposed government failed to secure parliamentary approval. The PNL Minister of National Defence, Gen. (retd) Nicolae-Ionel Ciucă, was subsequently nominated by President Iohannis as Prime Minister-designate. After unsuccessful negotiations to form a new government, on 22 November the PSD agreed to join a `grand coalition’ government with the PNL and the UDMR, and Ciucă was again designated as Prime Minister. Under the terms of the coalition agreement, the premiership was to rotate to a PSD representative after 18 months. On the following day PSD leader Ciolacu was elected as Chairman of the Chamber of Deputies, while Cîţu was elected as Chairman of the Senate, replacing Dragu. A new Government, headed by Ciucă, was approved by Parliament on 25 November, with the support of 318 deputies. PSD representatives included former premier Grindeanu as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Transport and Infrastructure, and Vasile Dîncu as Minister of National Defence, while an independent, Adrian Cãciu, became Minister of Finance.</p>
                         <p>Following further severe COVID-19 surges, the longstanding state of alert was lifted, together with most pandemic-related restrictions, on 9 March 2022. Following continued inter-party divisions, Cîţu announced his resignation from the PNL leadership on 2 April. At the same time, Dan Vîlceanu resigned as both party Secretary-General and Minister of Investments and European Projects. Ciucă was elected to replace Cîţu at a party congress on 10 April.</p>
                         <p>
            In October 2022 Dîncu resigned as Minister of National Defence, citing difficulties in working with the President, after he had been rebuked by Iohannis following a statement advocating internationally co-ordinated negotiations with the Russian Federation. He was succeeded by another PSD representative, Angel Tîlvăr. Meanwhile, revised draft laws on the judiciary, which were intended to meet commitments under the EU’s Co-operation and Verification Mechanism (see 
            <i>Regional Relations</i>
            ), were adopted by Ciucă’s Government in August and (following amendments) approved by Parliament in October. The Constitutional Court on 9 November rejected challenges to the legislation, which had been brought by the Ombudsman, and by USR and AUR deputies, and they were enacted by Iohannis in mid-November.
          </p>
                         <p>A national teachers’ strike and associated protests (which were attended by more than 200,000 education sector workers) to demand salary increases began in late May 2023. The campaign ended on 12 June, with the Government agreeing to an immediate 25% rise in salaries (to be followed by further increases in 2024). Meanwhile, after a consequent delay, Ciucă resigned on 12 June, in accordance with the 2021 power-sharing agreement with the PSD. On the following day Ciucă was elected as Chairman of the Senate and Iohannis formally nominated Ciolacu as Prime Minister. The new Ciolacu Government, which principally comprised representatives of the PSD and the PNL, was endorsed by a vote of confidence in Parliament on 15 June. The UDMR had left the coalition, after the other two parties refused to allocate it the development portfolio (and thereby responsibility for the distribution of budget funds for regional investment). Several ministers retained their posts, while other portfolios were reallocated: Marian-Cătălin Predoiu of the PNL, hitherto Minister of Justice, was appointed Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Internal Affairs, and Marian Neacşu of the PSD, previously Secretary-General of the Government, became a Deputy Prime Minister. The hitherto Minister of Finance Cãciu became Minister of Investments and European Projects, with the former incumbent, Marcel-Ioan Boloş, receiving the finance portfolio. Among the new ministers, Luminiţa-Teodora Odobescu, an independent and former envoy to the EU, was appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs.</p>
                         <p>
            Later in June 2023 Parliament approved the abolition of a `special pensions’ system for legislative members, as part of reforms required for the release of EU post-pandemic recovery funds (see 
            <i>Economic Affairs</i>
            ). 
            <!--https://www.bta.bg/en/news/balkans/578050-romania-s-constitutional-court-rules-that-abolition-of-mps-special-pensions-unc-->
            However, in August the Constitutional Court declared part of the new law to be unconstitutional; a revised law was adopted by Parliament in October but was again rejected by the Constitutional Court on 29 November. Further legislation reforming the national pension system, which included a rise in the retirement age for women to 65 years by 2035, was adopted on 20 November.
          </p>
                         <p>Renewed large-scale action by Romanian farmers, joined by truck drivers, was staged in January 2024 in protest at low prices for domestic produce, rising costs, tariff-free imports of foodstuffs and environmental constraints imposed by the EU (amid similar unrest in many other EU countries); convoys of tractors and trucks blocked principal roads near large cities, including Bucharest. On 2 February the Government signed a negotiated agreement with representatives of the protesters, which included concessions such as increased fuel subsidies. Meanwhile, in February the First Vice-President of the PNL, Iulian Dumitrescu, was placed under criminal investigation by the DNA on suspicion of receiving bribes, and it was announced that he had resigned from his party posts. In early April the defence ministry announced that it had presented for parliamentary debate a draft law introducing the concept of military intervention to protect Romanian citizens in danger outside the country (which was believed principally to concern Romanians in Moldova).</p>
                    </is-section>
               </is-section>
               <is-section id="RO.IS.12646975331" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Minority Ethnic Groups</heading>
                    <p id="RO.IS.53">Romania experienced frequent ethnic unrest after the fall of Ceauşescu. The EU made the improvement of the treatment of the Roma (Gypsy) minority a requirement for Romania to be declared eligible to accede to the Union. In 2015 the Government launched a new, five-year strategy for 2015-20, aimed at facilitating the social integration of the Roma, primarily by addressing issues such as education, health, employment and housing, which was to be partly funded by the EU.</p>
                    <p id="RO.IS.54">Following the overthrow of Ceauşescu, the ethnic Hungarian population sought to increase its cultural and linguistic autonomy in Transylvania. An agreement on Hungarian minority rights was signed in July 1993. In May Romania ratified the Framework Convention of the Council of Europe on the general protection of national minorities. In September 1996 Romania and Hungary signed a treaty of friendship, as a result of which Romania agreed to safeguard the rights of ethnic Hungarians, and Hungary relinquished any claim to territory in Transylvania. Controversial proposals to amend legislation on education in favour of ethnic minorities were finally approved in Romania in June 1999.</p>
                    <p id="RO.IS.55">
          In January 2001 the Chamber of Deputies approved a new public administration law, which made compulsory bilingual place names and signs, and the use of a given minority’s language in local administration, in towns where that minority formed at least 20% of the population. In June the Government condemned Hungary’s intention to introduce a new status law’, which was to grant education, employment and medical rights to ethnic Hungarians living in neighbouring countries (including Romania). Finally, in September 2003 Prime Minister Năstase and his Hungarian counterpart signed a bilateral agreement on the implementation of the status law in Romania. In February 2013 there was renewed tension when local Romanian officials in the central Covasna and Harghita counties prevented the hoisting of a flag representing the Szekler region (Székely Land), in eastern Transylvania, on office buildings; ethnic Hungarian government members subsequently expressed support for the use of the flag and associated demands for greater autonomy in Transylvania. In January 2017 ethnic Hungarians from Romania presented a further petition to Parliament declaring the independence of `Szeklerland’ (following a failed legislative initiative in 2012). In November 2017 the Chamber of Deputies voted to establish National Minorities’ Day in Romania, to be celebrated on 18 December as a public holiday. In January 2018 Romania’s three main ethnic Hungarian parties, including the UDMR, issued a joint demand for territorial, local and cultural autonomy in the Szekler region. More than 2,000 people participated in a march for autonomy in the region in March. On 29 April 2020 Romania’s Senate rejected a draft law providing for administrative autonomy in the Szekler region, which had been presented by the UDMR. 
          <!--https://transylvanianow.com/draft-bill-endorsing-hungarian-language-rights-dismissed-in-parliament/-->
          Shortly afterwards, a further proposal by the UDMR, to increase the language rights of the ethnic Hungarian community in Transylvania, was defeated in the Chamber of Deputies.
        </p>
               </is-section>
               <is-section id="RO.IS.12646977031" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Foreign Affairs</heading>
                    <is-section id="RO.IS.12646977151" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Regional Relations</heading>
                         <p id="RO.IS.56">Diplomatic relations with the former Soviet republic of Moldova (much of which formed part of Romania in 1918-40, and where a majority of the population are ethnic Romanians) were established in August 1991, and some political groups began to advocate unification. The Romanian leadership opposed unification, but encouraged the development of closer cultural and economic ties. After Romania’s accession to the EU on 1 January 2007 required Moldovan citizens visiting Romania to hold entry visas, the Moldovan Government strongly criticized Romania for granting Romanian citizenship to large numbers of Moldovan nationals. Violent protests in Moldova, which erupted in April 2009 following legislative elections, precipitated a breach in relations with Romania. The Moldovan President, Vladimir Voronin, accused the Romanian Government of organizing a coup attempt (many of the protesters having exhibited pro-Romanian sentiments), and expelled the Romanian ambassador, recalled the Moldovan envoy from Bucharest and introduced visa requirements for Romanians. Bilateral relations improved in September, following the formation of a pro-Western Government in Moldova and the abolition of the visa requirements imposed on Romanians. In November 2010 a long-delayed border treaty was finally signed. A Romanian-funded project to construct a natural gas pipeline linking the Moldovan border town of Ungheni and the Romanian city of Iaşi was officially completed in August 2014 (and in 2019 extended to the Moldovan capital, Chişinău). A `roadmap’ on co-operation between Moldova and Romania was signed on 23 November 2021, during a visit by Moldovan President Maia Sandu to Bucharest. In June 2022 (when Moldova received EU candidate status) a joint session of the Romanian and Moldovan Parliaments was hosted in Chişinău for the first time, resulting in pledges to enhance co-operation in energy.</p>
                         <p id="RO.IS.57">
            A basic treaty between Romania and Ukraine, signed in June 1997, guaranteed the inviolability of their joint border, and provided for separate treaties to be established regarding the administration of the frontier and the disputed ownership of the Black Sea continental shelf. In June 2003 President Ion Iliescu and President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine signed an accord confirming the mutual land border of the two countries, as it was delineated in 1961, with the exception of the continental shelf. In 2004 both states agreed to refer the issue of the disputed maritime area to the 
            <xr pageref="Y" ref="IO-UN.527">International Court of Justice (ICJ)</xr>
            . In February 2009 the ICJ finally issued a ruling awarding some 79% of the maritime area under dispute to Romania. Following the Russian Federation’s annexation of Ukraine’s Crimean peninsula (see Ukraine) in March 2014, the Romanian Government supported sanctions imposed by the EU against Russia.
          </p>
                         <p>President Iohannis condemned Russia’s military aggression against Ukraine, following its invasion on 24 February 2022, and the Government announced its participation in wide-ranging EU sanctions applied against Russia (including a ban on the broadcasts of Russian state media outlets). The Government dispatched humanitarian aid to Ukraine, and approved the provision of military equipment amounting to €3m. In early April 10 Russian diplomats were expelled from Romania for contravening diplomatic conventions. In a video address to the Romanian Parliament on 4 April, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky declared that Ukraine sought to improve relations with Romania and to resolve problems related to the ethnic Romanian minority community in Ukraine. On 26 April a Romanian government delegation led by Prime Minister Ciucă met Zelensky in the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, where the two leaders discussed issues including the export of agricultural products from Ukraine through Romanian ports (after Russian forces had blocked access to Ukraine’s Black Sea ports). During early 2023 local farmers in several Eastern European countries increasingly protested against imports of large quantities of tariff-free Ukrainian grain and other produce. In April the Romanian Government announced that it would strengthen quality monitoring and take additional security measures in the transport of products through its territory, but, despite demands from farmers, refrained from introducing a temporary ban on Ukrainian agricultural imports (which had been imposed by Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and Bulgaria). Meanwhile, the first Black Sea Security Conference (a Ukrainian initiative) was hosted in Bucharest on 12-13 April. Zelensky made a visit to Bucharest, meeting Iohannis for discussions, on 10 October, when it was confirmed that a centre for training Ukrainian pilots in US-manufactured warplanes was to be established in Romania. (Iohannis announced in March that he had approved the training of some 50 Ukrainian pilots at the Feteşti airbase, 150 km east of Bucharest.) In January a memorandum of understanding was signed between Romania, Bulgaria and Türkiye (as Turkey had been officially redesignated in mid-2022) on a trilateral initiative to clear floating mines laid by both the Russian and Ukrainian military in the Black Sea. At 10 April 77,902 Ukrainian refugees were recorded in Romania by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (following more than 4.3m. border crossings from Ukraine since the beginning of the conflict).</p>
                         <p id="RO.IS.58">In June 1995 Romania formally applied for full membership of the EU. Formal accession talks commenced in February 2000. An accession agreement was signed on 25 April 2005, and Romania acceded to the EU on 1 January 2007, becoming subject to an European Commission monitoring programme under the Co-operation and Verification Mechanism (CVM). Following its establishment in December 2020, the PNL-led Government of Prime Minister Cîţu renewed diplomatic efforts seeking Romania’s accession to the EU’s Schengen area, which was opposed by some EU member states, due to rule of law concerns. The European Commission in November 2022 recommended that Romania, together with Bulgaria and Croatia, be admitted to the EU’s Schengen visa-free travel area, considering them to have fulfilled the necessary criteria. However, due to opposition from Austria and the Netherlands (amid concerns over irregular migration), on 8 December the Council of the EU rejected the entry of both Romania and Bulgaria to the zone. Meanwhile, in November the European Commission concluded that Romania had made sufficient progress on judicial reform and the fight against corruption for the CVM to be closed; the mechanism was officially ended on 15 September 2023. On 30 December the Council of the EU announced that the Schengen area would be extended to Romania and Bulgaria from the end of March 2024, shortly after the two states had reached a tripartite agreement with Austria. In accordance with the agreement, on 31 March Romania and Bulgaria officially joined the Schengen visa-free regime for air and sea travel, but not land routes (with further negotiations to follow on the lifting of land border controls).</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="RO.IS.12646977751" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Other External Relations</heading>
                         <p id="RO.IS.61">
            In early 1997 Romania appealed directly to member countries of the 
            <xr pageref="Y" ref="NATO.IO">North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)</xr>
             to support its candidacy for admittance to the Alliance. Following large-scale suicide attacks perpetrated against the USA on 11 September 2001, Romania pledged full co-operation with US anti-terrorism efforts. Romania secured an invitation to join NATO at a summit meeting held in Prague, Czech Republic, in November, after which US President George W. Bush visited the country. In December 2005 the US Secretary of State signed an agreement with the Romanian Minister of Foreign Affairs, granting US troops access to military bases under the command of the Romanian army. In February 2010 the Romanian Supreme Defence Council approved the deployment in Romania of elements of a proposed US missile defence system (prompting criticism from the Russian Government). In February 2015, amid continuing conflict in eastern Ukraine, NATO announced plans to establish an expanded rapid reaction force to counter the perceived threat of Russian aggression; new NATO command posts were to be installed in Romania and five other Eastern European states, and the headquarters for deployments in South-Eastern Europe was to be located in Romania. A US missile interceptor site in the southern Romanian village of Deveselu, where 200-500 US staff were to be based, was inaugurated in December. In October 2017 NATO stationed a new multinational force at Craiova, in southern Romania, to counter Russia’s presence in the Black Sea region. 
          </p>
                         <p>
            President Iohannis met US President Donald Trump in Washington, DC, the USA, in August 2019. In October 2020 the Romanian Minister of National Defence, Nicolae-Ionel Ciucă, met his US counterpart during a visit to Washington, DC, signing a 10-year roadmap for enhanced defence co-operation. Amid mounting concerns at the mass deployment of Russian troops at Ukraine’s borders, in February 2022 NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg announced plans to establish a new, French-led battlegroup in Romania. Following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine on 24 February, French troops began to arrive in Romania as part of the NATO battlegroup. 
            <!--https://www.nato.int/nato_static_fl2014/assets/pdf/2022/11/pdf/221128-factsheet-efp_en.pdf-->
            At November the NATO battlegroup at Cincu, in central Romania, also including troops from the Netherlands, comprised 574 personnel; together with additional NATO forces from Poland, Portugal and the USA which were not integrated into the battlegroup, a total of 1,126 troops were deployed in Romania. In March 2024 work began on expansion of the airbase at Mihail Kogălniceanu International Airport, near the Black Sea port of Constanţa; the long-term project, intended to develop the largest NATO military base in Europe with the capacity to host some 10,000 personnel, prompted warnings from Russian officials.
          </p>
                    </is-section>
               </is-section>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="RO.IS.62" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Constitution and Government</heading>
               <p id="RO.IS.63">Under the Constitution of 1991 (and as subsequently modified, most substantially in 2003), legislative power is vested in the bicameral Parlamentul (Parliament), comprising the Camera Deputaţilor (Chamber of Deputies, lower house) and the Senatul (Senate, upper house). Parliament is elected by universal adult suffrage for a term of four years. Executive power is vested in the President of the Republic, who may serve a maximum of two five-year terms and who is directly elected by universal adult suffrage. The President appoints the Prime Minister, who in turn appoints the Council of Ministers. Judicial power is exercised by the High Court of Cassation and Justice, as well as by county and local courts.</p>
               <p id="RO.IS.64">Romania comprises 41 administrative divisions (counties) and the municipality of Bucharest.</p>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="RO.IS.12646978901" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Regional and International Co-operation</heading>
               <p id="RO.IS.787878">
        Romania is a member of the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="EBRD.IO">European Bank for Reconstruction and Development</xr>
        , the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="CE.IO">Council of Europe</xr>
        , the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="OSCE.IO">Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe</xr>
         and the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="BSEC.IO">Organization of the Black Sea Eco­nomic Cooperation</xr>
        . In 2007 Romania acceded to the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="WB02047.IO.TXT">European Union</xr>
        .
      </p>
               <p>
        Romania became a member of the United Nations in 1955 and, as a contracting party to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, joined the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="WTO.IO">World Trade Organization</xr>
         on its establishment in 1995. In 2004 Romania joined the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="NATO.IO">North Atlantic Treaty Organization</xr>
        .
      </p>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="RO.IS.68" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Economic Affairs</heading>
               <!--Updates have been done from national website, World Bank and ILO. NS (10/04/2013) First para from World Bank, sectoral contribution and labour figures from official website, growth figures from World Bank, trade from stats survey. Inflation source changed to IMF as official site uses previous year as base year. SHG 15 MAR 2017-->
               <p id="RO.IS.69">In 2022, according to the World Bank, Romania’s gross national income, measured at average 2020-22 prices, totalled US&#160;$296,798m., equivalent to $15,660 per head (or $40,600 per head on an international purchasing-power parity basis). During 2013-22, according to World Bank estimates, the population decreased at an average annual rate of 0.6%, while gross domestic product (GDP) per head increased, in real terms, at an average annual rate of 4.5%. Overall GDP increased, in real terms, by an average of 3.9% annually during 2013-22; real GDP increased by 4.8% in 2022.</p>
               <p id="RO.IS.70">Agriculture (including forestry and fishing) contributed 4.3% of GDP in 2023, according to provisional figures, and the sector employed 12.3% of the employed labour force in the third quarter of 2023. The principal crops are wheat, maize, sunflower seeds, barley, potatoes and cabbages. Wine production plays a significant role. Forestry, the cropping of reeds (used as a raw material in the paper and cellulose industry) and the breeding of fish are also important. During 2013-22, according to the World Bank, agricultural GDP decreased, in real terms, by an average of 0.2% per year; real agricultural GDP increased by 6.0% in 2021, but decreased by 11.6% in 2022.</p>
               <p id="RO.IS.71">Industry (including mining, manufacturing, construction, power and water) accounted for a provisional 30.2% of GDP in 2023 and employed 32.8% of the working population in the third quarter of 2023. According to the World Bank, industrial GDP increased, in real terms, by an average of 2.6% annually in 2013-22; real industrial GDP increased by 3.2% in 2021 and by 0.5% in 2022.</p>
               <p id="RO.IS.72">The mining sector employed 0.6% of the employed labour force in the third quarter of 2023. Lignite (brown coal), hard coal, salt, iron ore, bauxite, copper, lead and zinc are mined. Onshore production of crude petroleum began to increase in the early 1990s. At the end of 2020 Romania had proven reserves of 600m. barrels of petroleum, remaining the largest producer in Central and Eastern Europe, despite a significant decline in production.</p>
               <p id="RO.IS.73">Manufacturing accounted for 19.2% of GDP in 2022, according to the World Bank, and engaged 19.3% of the employed labour force in the third quarter of 2023. The sector is based mainly on the metallurgical, mechanical engineering, chemical and timber-processing industries. According to the World Bank, manufacturing GDP increased, in real terms, by an average of 3.3% annually in 2013-22; real sectoral GDP increased by 12.9% in 2021, but decreased by 3.1% in 2022.</p>
               <p id="RO.IS.715345634562">Construction accounted for a provisional 8.8% of GDP in 2023, and the sector employed 10.5% of the working population in the third quarter of 2023. According to the United Nations (UN), construction GDP increased, in real terms, by an average of 3.4% annually in 2013-22; real sectoral GDP increased by 1.5% in 2021 and by 7.7% in 2022.</p>
               <p id="RO.IS.74">According to the World Bank, in 2015 some 27.6% of gross electricity production was derived from coal, 25.2% from hydroelectric power, 17.9% from nuclear power and 14.2% from natural gas. The initial unit of Romania’s nuclear power station, at Cernavoda, became operational in December 1996; the second (700-MW) unit entered into operation in 2008. In 2023 mineral fuels comprised 8.5% of total imports.</p>
               <p id="RO.IS.75">The services sector contributed a provisional 65.5% of GDP in 2023, and engaged 54.9% of the labour force in the third quarter of 2023. According to the UN, the GDP of the services sector increased, in real terms, by an average of 4.4% per year in 2013-22; the real GDP of the sector increased by 7.5% in 2022.</p>
               <p id="RO.IS.76">
        In 2022 Romania recorded a visible merchandise trade deficit of US&#160;$33,614m., and there was a deficit of $27,326m. on the current account of the balance of payments. According to official provisional figures, in 2023 the principal source of imports was Germany, which provided 19.4% of the total. Other major suppliers were Italy, Hungary, Poland,
        
         the People’s Republic of China and Türkiye. Germany was also the main market for exports in that year (accounting for 20.8% of the total); other important purchasers were Italy, France and Hungary. In 2023 the principal imports were machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods, chemical products, miscellaneous manufactured articles,&#160;food and live animals, and mineral products. The major exports in that year were machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods, miscellaneous manufactured articles, food and live animals, and mineral products.
      </p>
               <p id="RO.IS.77">In 2023 the overall budget deficit was 91,913.3m. lei. Romania’s general government gross debt was 711,655m. lei in 2022, equivalent to 50.5% of GDP. Romania’s total external debt in 2020 was US&#160;$142,390m., of which $58,674m. was public and publicly guaranteed debt. In that year the cost of servicing long-term public and publicly guaranteed debt and repayments to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) was equivalent to 20.4% of the value of exports of goods, services and income (excluding workers’ remittances). According to the IMF, the annual rate of inflation averaged 3.3% in 2013-22. According to official figures, consumer prices increased by 10.4% in 2023. Some 5.4% of the labour force were unemployed in the third quarter of 2023.</p>
               <p id="RO.IS.79">
        Growth in GDP moderated from more than 7.0% in 2017 (one of the highest rates in Europe), and the European Commission launched an excessive deficit procedure against Romania in March 2020. Meanwhile, following the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, in March the Government adopted a series of relief measures, including wage subsidization and support for businesses. In 2020 GDP declined by 3.7%, while the budget deficit reached a record high. However, GDP growth recovered at a rate of 5.7% in 2021. In September the European Commission endorsed Romania’s National Plan for Recovery and Resilience (NPRR), which was to be supported by around €29,100m. in grants and loans under the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="WB02047.IO.TXT">European Union’s</xr>
         performance-based Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF). The European Commission disbursed the first €2,600m. payment to Romania under the RRF in October 2022, after the adoption of several reforms supporting digital transition. In that year GDP growth remained high, at a rate of 4.8%, driven by strong private consumption following the lifting of pandemic-related restrictions. However, annual inflation accelerated to 13.8%, amid sharp rises in global fuel and food prices ensuing from Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in February. Following a lengthy delay, the second payment under the RRF, of €2,760m., was released in late September. The NPRR, with a total allocation of €14,900m. in loans and €13,600m. in grants, was revised in December 2023. However, the Government’s request for a third payment was delayed, amid controversy over required reforms to the national pension system (see 
        <i>Domestic Political Affairs</i>
        ). Revisions to the pension system, approved in November, included a rise in the retirement age for women to 65 years by 2035, but provided for a 13.8% rise in pensions from January 2024 (with a second rise in September). In March the European Commission issued concerns over missed reform targets and the widening of the fiscal deficit, expecting it to reach around 7% of GDP (compared with a government target of 5% and a level of 5.7% in 2023). In 2023 the rate of GDP growth fell to 2.1% (according to preliminary official figures), reflecting the constraints of high inflation on domestic demand. However, the annual inflation rate had slowed to around 7% by early 2024.
      </p>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="RO.IS.82" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Public Holidays</heading>
               <public-holidays>
                    <holiday-year>
                         <!--http://romaniatourism.com/people.html -->
                         <year>2025</year>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>1-2 January</date>
                              <holiday-name>New Year</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>24 January</date>
                              <holiday-name>Union of the Romanian Principalities</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>20-21 April</date>
                              <holiday-name>Orthodox Easter</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>1 May</date>
                              <holiday-name>Labour Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>1 June</date>
                              <holiday-name>International Children’s Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>8-9 June</date>
                              <holiday-name>Pentecost</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>15 August</date>
                              <holiday-name>Dormition of the Virgin Mary</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>30 November</date>
                              <holiday-name>St Andrew’s Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>1 December</date>
                              <holiday-name>National Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>18 December</date>
                              <holiday-name>National Minorities Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>25-26 December</date>
                              <holiday-name>Christmas</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                    </holiday-year>
               </public-holidays>
          </is-section>
     </is-section>
</intro-survey>