<?xml version="1.0"?>
<country-survey id="MK.GE" id-root="mk" iso="mk" original-filename="mkdgeog.rtf" print-style="PGWIDTH" sect-type="geography" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <country-head>North Macedonia</country-head>
     <heading>Geography</heading>
     <alt-heading>North Macedonia</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">North Macedonia</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Geography</alt-heading>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Physical Features</heading>
          <p id="MK.GEOG.1">The Republic of North Macedonia lies in South-Eastern Europe, on the Balkan Peninsula. Roughly rectangular in shape, the republic is a landlocked state, having a northern border with Serbia and a north-western border with Kosovo. To the west lies Albania, to the south Greece, and to the east Bulgaria.</p>
          <figure-group media="PRINT">
               <figure filename="/raidtec/esdata/EUROPA/EECIS/GRAPHICS/EPS/Macedonia.lay" />
          </figure-group>
          <p id="MK.GEOG.2">
      The historical region of Macedonia is divided between North Macedonia, Greece and Bulgaria. North Macedonia has a total area of 25,436 sq&#160;km (9,821
      
       sq&#160;miles). The country is mountainous. It is bisected by the Vardar (Axiós) river, which flows from north-west to south-east, across the centre of the country and into Greece, where it enters the Aegean Sea.
    </p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Climate and Population</heading>
          <p id="MK.GEOG.3">North Macedonia has a mild, Mediterranean climate, although winters, especially in the mountainous areas, are cold and snow cover can last for several months. It has a mean summer temperature of 27°C (80°F). According to the census of September 2021, the total population was 1,836,713, giving a population density of 72.2 per sq&#160;km. The population had declined from 2,022,547 at the census of October 2002. The capital is Skopje, which is located on the Vardar, in the north of the country, and including its suburbs, had a population of 526,502 at the 2021 census. Other principal towns included Kumanovo, in the north, with a population of 98,104, Bitola in the south-west (85,164), and Tetovo, the centre of Albanian settlement, in the north-west (84,770).</p>
          <p id="MK.GEOG.4">According to the census of 2021, 58.4% of the national population considered themselves to be ethnic Macedonians, while 24.3% identified as ethnic Albanians. The Macedonians are a Southern Slav people, closely related to Bulgarians. However, the separ­ate existence of a Macedonian ethnic group was acknowledged neither by Bulgaria nor Greece (which described its Macedonian’ minority as Slav-speaking Greeks) nor by many Serbs. Most Albanians are concentrated in the west of the country, particularly the north-west, where they tend to live in distinct communities. Most of the population are Eastern Orthodox Christians. Most of the Albanians are Muslim, although there are some Catholics (mostly of the Byzantine rite) in Skopje and some Orthodox near Ohrid. Most of the remaining minority groups are also Muslim. According to the 2021 census, some 3.9% of the population self-identified as ethnic Turks, 2.5% as Roma (Gypsy) and 1.3% as Serbs, resident mostly in Skopje and Kumanovo. There were also a number of Slav Muslims (known as Torbeshes, Poturs or Pomaks) and Vlahs or Vlachs (Koutsovlahs, Aromani, Cincari), the country being the main former Yugoslav territory of this traditionally nomadic, Romanian-speaking people. The official language of the country is Macedonian, a Southern Slavonic language closely related to Bulgarian and written in the Cyrillic script. Legislation approved in 2018 endorsed the use of Albanian, previously an official language in communities where speakers constituted 20% of the population, as an official language across the entire country.</p>
     </gen-section>
</country-survey>