<?xml version="1.0"?>
<country-survey id="MK.HI" id-root="mk" iso="mk" original-filename="mkdhist.rtf" print-style="PGWIDTH" sect-type="history" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>History</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">North Macedonia</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">History</alt-heading>
     <author-group>
          <primary-authors>
               <person-name>
                    <forename>Dimitar</forename>
                    <surname>Bechev</surname>
               </person-name>
          </primary-authors>
     </author-group>
     <p>Lecturer, Oxford School of Global and Area Studies, University of Oxford, United Kingdom, and visiting scholar, Carnegie Europe, Brussels, Belgium.</p>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>The Macedonian Region</heading>
          <p>
      The name `Macedonia’ was first used in the fifth century 
      <sc>bce</sc>
      . Macedonia, or Macedon, situated between the city states of the Greek mainland and tribal peoples such as the Paeonians and the Illyrians, was viewed as somewhat underdeveloped by southern city states such as Athens. In 359 
      <sc>bce</sc>
       Philip II acceded to the throne, and he gained control of silver mines around Mt Pangaion, near Kavalla, at the mouth of the River Struma. Philip subdued the city states of Greece, and his son, Alexander III (Alexander `the Great’), led a campaign of conquest against the Persian Empire, reaching India. Alexander died in Babylon in 323 
      <sc>bce</sc>
      , and his empire was divided into several Hellenistic kingdoms. Greatly weakened, Macedon was conquered by the Roman Empire in 168 
      <sc>bce</sc>
       and divided into four semi-autonomous territories.
    </p>
          <p>
      Roman rule extended over much of the Balkans, bringing new cities, and new roads such as the Via Egnatia passing through Thessaloniki (Salonika) established by Cassander, one of Alexander’s successors. In 326 
      <sc>ce</sc>
       Emperor Constantine, a convert to Christianity, moved his capital to Byzantium (İstanbul, Turkey—now known as Türkiye). Constantinople, as the city was renamed, endured for more than 1,000 years, and exerted a strong political and cultural influence over the Balkans.
    </p>
          <p>Under Eastern Roman (Byzantine) rule, the demography of the Balkans changed significantly. The Slav migrations of the sixth and seventh centuries brought people from north-eastern Europe. In the seventh century the Bulgars, nomads from the Eurasian steppes, swept in. Roman settlers and indigenous peoples were either assimilated or driven into the mountains. Subsequently, Slavic dialects came to dominate much of the Balkans. Modern Albanian is a distinct language linking the Albanians to the ancient Illyrians or the Thracians.</p>
          <p>In the ninth century SS Cyril and Methodius, natives of Thessaloniki, led Christian missions northward and eastward, and developed South Slavic as a liturgical language. Orthodox Christianity had already spread from Constantinople. The Bulgar state reached its peak in the ninth and 10th centuries, under Simeon, who adopted the title of Tsar, but was later defeated by the Byzantines. The last surviving bastion of Bulgar autonomy was the Kingdom of Tsar Samuil, centred in Ohrid. In the 12th century Stefan Nemanja established a Serbian Kingdom, and his son, Rastko (Sava), became head of an autonomous Serbian Church. Under Stefan Dušan’s reign (1331-55), Serbia reached its peak, having conquered modern Macedonia earlier in the century. Dušan, becoming Tsar in his capital, Skopje, in 1346, sought to conquer Constantinople. Weakened by the Fourth Crusade in 1204 and under pressure from Islamic Turkish states in Anatolia, Byzantium was in decline. From the 1360s the OsmanlI (Ottoman) dynasty pushed into the Balkans. Having defeated the Serbs and their allies at Kosovo Polje in 1389, they seized the region, capturing Constantinople in 1453. The Ottoman Empire maintained control of the territory of modern Albania and Macedonia, as well as parts of modern Greece and modern Bulgaria, and much of Kosovo until the early 20th century.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>The Rise of Nationalism</heading>
          <p>Ottoman authority waned as a result of lost wars and internal fragmentation. Ideals of self-determination triumphed with the Serb rebellion of 1804 and the Greek War of Independence (1821-30) and new nation-states emerged. In the mid-1870s uprisings in Herzegovina and Bulgaria precipitated yet another Russo-Ottoman War. The peace treaty of San Stefano created a `greater Bulgaria’, encompassing much of modern North Macedonia and extending beyond Lake Ohrid on its western border. The United Kingdom and Austria-Hungary, however, intervened to reverse the establishment of an excessively powerful satellite state of Russia, and Macedonia remained under Ottoman suzerainty. Bulgaria joined Greece and Serbia in staking a claim to the region. The Bulgarian Exarchate, which had split from the Orthodox Patriarchate at Constantinople in 1870, gained considerable influence.</p>
          <p>The Ottoman lands experienced a period of nationalist fervour. In 1878 Albanians established the League of Prizren. In 1909-10 Albanians revolted against Ottoman rule. In 1893 a secret Macedonian revolutionary society had been formed by a group of teachers and activists belonging to the Bulgarian Exarchate. What eventually became the Vnatrešno Makedonsko-Odrinska Revolucionerna Organizacija (VMRO—Internal Macedonian-Adrianopolitan Revolutionary Organization) spread its network across Ottoman Macedonia, as well as in Thrace, campaigning for the autonomy of those regions. It suffered from internal cleavages over the degree of distance from Bulgarian authorities. On 2 August 1903, Ilinden (the feast of prophet Elijah), the organization staged an uprising. After this was crushed by the Ottomans, splits deepened within the movement between left- and right-wing factions. VMRO also came under pressure from Greek and Serbian bands.</p>
          <p>By 1912 Greece, Serbia and Bulgaria had aligned. Together with Montenegro, they defeated Ottoman forces in the First Balkan War. However, Bulgaria and Serbia then clashed over division Macedonia, with Greece taking control of much of the southern parts of the region. Serbia sought to retain Ohrid, Bitola and Skopje as recompense for the territory in Albania it had expected, but which the Great Powers had turned into a new nation state. In the Second Balkan War of June-August 1913 Bulgaria opposed its former allies but was defeated, after Romania and the Ottomans joined the latter. The First World War, in which Bulgaria was defeated by the Entente, reconfirmed Serbian and Greek territorial gains from 1913. The modern Republic of North Macedonia comprises the area of Ottoman Macedonia that was awarded to Serbia.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Macedonia in Yugoslavia</heading>
          <p>The Paris (Versailles) Peace Conference of 1919 promulgated US President Woodrow Wilson’s doctrine of self-determination as the principle for redrawing imperial borders in Europe. At the same time the victorious powers rewarded their allies. A new South Slavic state, the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, emerged, led by the Serbian royal family. Comprising pre-1914 Serbia, including the Macedonian region, Montenegro, as well as parts of the former Austria-Hungary, it was formally renamed Yugoslavia in 1929. Delegations to Versailles from Macedonia, arguing either for autonomy or for union with Bulgaria on ethnic grounds, were ignored.</p>
          <p>Recuperating `lost lands’ remained a core cause in Bulgaria, home to thousands of refugees from Serbian Macedonia, both from before the Balkan Wars and since 1919. They were joined by exiles from Greek Macedonia, arriving following population exchange between Greece and Bulgaria. Macedonians filled the ranks of a reconstituted Vnatrešno-Makedonska Revolucionerna Organizacija (VMRO—Internal Macedonian Revolu­tionary Organization—Adrinopolitan Thrace was no longer part of the organization’s remit), fighting against Serbia and Greece, as well as of the communist movement. During the Second World War Bulgaria allied itself with Germany and annexed most of Yugoslav Macedonia as well as parts of the Greek Macedonia. Initially welcomed by the locals, Bulgaria pursued an aggressive policy of assimilation that alienated many. Communists commanded some sympathy, which increased when they embraced the cause of Macedonian nationalism, distinguishing the Slav majority from the populations of Serbia and Bulgaria. In the post-war Federative People’s Republic of Yugoslavia led by Josip Broz (Tito), the former leader of the communist resistance forces, Macedonia became a republic, while the Slavic-speaking majority won recognition as a constituent nation. Those who opposed Titoism, whether because of pro-Bulgarian sympathies or aspirations for a `greater Macedonia’ outside Yugoslavia, faced repression. Socialist Yugoslavia oversaw a period of intense nation building: Macedonian was standardized as a language; a set of cultural institutions took shape; and a Macedonian Orthodox Church was established in 1967 (or, effectively, restored, 200 years after the closure by the Ottomans of the Ohrid Archbishopric). Tito supported the rights of Slavs in northern Greece, the focal point of the Civil War in 1946-49, and south-eastern Bulgaria (Pirin Macedonia) to assert themselves as Macedonians, rather than as Greeks or Bulgarians, respectively. At first, Bulgaria supported that programme but after Yugoslavia’s expulsion from the Soviet-dominated Communist Information Bureau (Cominform) in 1948, relations were strained. By the 1960s the Balgarska Komunisticheska Partiya (Bulgarian Communist Party) challenged the notion of a separate Macedonian nation.</p>
          <p>Macedonia progressed as part of socialist Yugoslavia, although it lagged behind the wealthier parts of the federation. In economic and cultural terms, it gravitated to neighbouring Serbia. However, tension between the majority and the rising ethnic Albanian community in western Macedonia, which was recognized as comprising a `nationality’ like the Aromanians or Turks of Yugoslavia, rather than as a full-fledged `constituent nation’ of the federation, persisted. Between 1951 and 1981 Albanian cultural rights in Macedonia steadily improved; however, amid demonstrations during 1981 in Prishtina, in the neighbouring Serbian Autonomous Province of Kosovo, the Macedonian authorities followed the Serbian example in repressing Albanian nationalism.</p>
          <p>Throughout the 1980s, as Yugoslavia’s economy deteriorated, many Macedonians remained loyal to the ideal of federalism. As elsewhere in Yugoslavia, however, nationalist parties gained support by fostering grudges against the centre. The results of elections to a 120-seat unicameral legislature, the Sobranie (Assembly), in 1990 demonstrated Macedonian divisions. A new nationalist coalition, headed by a revived and renamed Vnatrešno-Makedonska Revolucionerna Organizacija-Demokratska Partija za Makedonsko Nacionalno Edinstvo (VMRO-DPMNE, the Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization-Democratic Party for Macedonian National Unity) gained most seats, ahead of the ruling Sojuz na Komunistite na Makedonija (SKM—League of Communists of Macedonia). Albanians voted for ethnically defined parties, the largest being the Partia për Prosperitet Demokratik (PPD—Party for Democratic Prosperity). Parliament elected Kiro Gligorov of the SKM as President, while Ljubčo Georgievski of the VMRO-DPMNE became Vice-President. Gligorov, as well as Macedonia’s representative to Yugoslavia’s collective presidency, Vasil Tupurkovski, subscribed to preserving the common state in a looser form.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Independence</heading>
          <p>An independence referendum on 8 September 1991 (boycotted by ethnic Albanians) was followed by the adoption of a new Constitution proclaiming the sovereignty of the Republic of Macedonia. Although Macedonia fulfilled the requirements for official recognition advanced by the European Community (EC, later European Union—EU), considerable obstacles remained. Greece blocked EC recognition, arguing that a republic named `Macedonia’ would have irredentist ambitions over northern Greece. Nevertheless, the new republic separated from Yugoslavia peacefully and federal troops left in March 1992. Macedonian independence was recognized by Bulgaria, Turkey, the Russian Federation and many other states. In December 1992 the United Nations (UN) Security Council deployed peacekeeping troops along the border with Yugoslavia (now comprising only Serbia and Montenegro) and Albania in an attempt to contain inter-ethnic unrest. Economically, however, Macedonia suffered considerably as a result of the disruption of trade with Serbia, following the imposition of UN sanctions against Yugoslavia.</p>
          <p>Meanwhile, Macedonia’s flag (adopted in August 1992) also provoked Greece, which particularly objected to the use of the Vergina Star, an ancient emblem of Philip of Macedon and Alexander `the Great’. In February 1993 Greece agreed to international arbitration over the question of the country’s name, and on 8 April the republic was admitted to the UN under the temporary name of `the former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia’ (FYRM). In February 1994, however, Greece blocked all non-humanitarian shipments to the FYRM through the port at Thessaloniki and suspended road and rail transport with the country. In 1995 and an interim, UN-sponsored accord was signed providing for the mutual recognition of existing frontiers and respect for the sovereignty and political independence of each state, and for the free movement of goods and people. Greece ended the trade embargo and committed not to veto the FYRM’s entry into international organizations, while the FYRM authorities undertook to abandon the use of the Vergina Star, and not to amend parts of the Constitution that Greece regarded as irredentist. The Sobranie approved a new flag in October.</p>
          <p>The VMRO-DPMNE left the governing coalition in October 1991. Power passed to the Socijaldemokratski Sojuz na Makedonija (SDSM—Social Democratic Alliance of Macedonia—reconstituted from the SKM), led by Branko Crvenkovski. Prime Minister Crvenkovski ruled in co-operation with the ethnic Albanian PPD. The VMRO-DPMNE rallied supporters against any concessions to Albanian demands and argued for greater distance from Serbia.</p>
          <p>Nevertheless, the SDSM survived its first electoral challenge in 1994, when legislative and presidential elections took place concurrently. The VMRO-DPMNE presented a renowned theatre director, Ljubiša Georgievski (unrelated to the party’s leader), as its presidential candidate, but he was defeated by Gligorov. However, the opposition boycotted the second round of the legislative polls, accusing the incumbent ruling party of malpractice. Meanwhile, the ethnic Albanian Partia për Prosperitet Demokratik e Shqiptare (Party of Democratic Prosperity of Albanians) separated from the PPD with a more radical programme, led by Arben Xhaferi. Violent clashes between the Albanians and the police became more frequent in the mid-1990s—for instance, when an Albanian-language university opened in the north-western town of Tetovo in late 1994. There were incidents at the border with the Serbian province of Kosovo, where the Albanian majority was becoming increasingly militant, as well as bomb attacks. Cross-border smuggling and other illicit activities flourished. Gligorov narrowly survived a car bomb attack in September 1995, probably linked to criminal networks operating across the Western Balkans.</p>
          <p>Mounting discontent helped VMRO-DPMNE win the 1998 legislative elections in alliance with a new party, the Demokratska Alternativa (DA—Democratic Alternative), led by Vasil Tupurkovski. Georgievski formed a governing coalition with the DA and Xhaferi’s new Partia Demokratike Shqiptare (PDSh—Democratic Party of Albanians). The Government legalized the Albanian-language university in Tetovo. Georgievski undertook domestic reforms such as the introduction of a value-added tax, a project overseen by a youthful finance minister, Nikola Gruevski. In February 1999 Gruevski and Bulgarian Prime Minister Ivan Kostov signed a declaration of friendship between their respective countries. The Government made advances in its process of integration into the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the EU. In 1999 the country was granted a NATO membership action plan. In March 2001 the FYRM became the first country in the Western Balkans to sign a Stabilization and Association Agreement with the EU.</p>
          <p>Unfortunately, the FYRM was exposed to the conflict in neighbouring Kosovo. It lost the UN monitoring mission (renamed the UN Preventative Deployment Force—UNPREDEP—in 1995), after the People’s Republic of China vetoed its extension in 1999, following the FYRM’s decision to establish diplomatic ties with the Republic of China (Taiwan—its recognition of Taiwan was rescinded in 2001, however). Meanwhile, in late 1998 violence in Kosovo escalated and during the NATO bombing campaign against Yugoslavia in March-June 1999 more than 250,000 ethnic Albanians fled to the FYRM. NATO deployed forces there, preparing for a ground invasion into Kosovo. Political tensions continued after the conflict, as Gligorov’s term expired in November. His successor, Boris Trajkovski of the VMRO-DPMNE, won 52.9% of the votes cast in the second round of the presidential election, with strong support from ethnic Albanian voters, who rallied against the Macedonian nationalist rhetoric of Tito Petkovski, the SDSM candidate.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Civil Conflict and its Aftermath, 2001-05</heading>
          <p>In February 2001 a border village, Tanusevci, was occupied by armed Albanians who claimed membership of the Ushtria Çlirimtare Kombëtare (UÇK—M—National Liberation Army). This new organization, which emerged from the Ushtria Çlirimtare e Kosovës (Kosovo Liberation Army), was led by Ali Ahmeti, an émigré who had returned from Switzerland. With assistance from NATO peacekeepers, Macedonian security forces regained control of the region. However, UÇK—M forces regrouped to take territory in the hills above Tetovo and Kumanovo, and advanced to Aračinovo, near Skopje. Fighting led to 100 deaths and thousands of civilians being displaced. Following EU and US mediation, the leaders of the VMRO-DPMNE, the SDSM, the PDSh and the PPD, gathered in Ohrid, signing a peace agreement on 13 August. Under the Ohrid Agreement, the UÇK—M surrendered its armaments to a NATO mission. On 16 November the Assembly adopted sweeping constitutional changes to empower ethnic communities in local and national politics, the public sector and education. Ethnic representation in the judiciary, police and civil service was to be proportionate to the share in the overall population. A system of `double majority’ was introduced under which more than one-half of a certain ethnic community’s votes was required in parliament (in practice, of the ethnic Albanian deputies) on legislation affecting the group in question. A new census therefore took place, with results released in January 2003.</p>
          <p>Legislative elections in September 2002 resulted in the return to power of the SDSM, after the VMRO-DPMNE faced allegations of corruption and cronyism. In the ethnic Albanian community, the PDSh lost support to the new Bashkimi Demokratik për Integrim (BDI—Democratic Union for Integration), established by former UÇK—M commander Ali Ahmeti. The SDSM and the BDI formed a new Government, led by Crvenkovski. The implementation of the Ohrid Agreement proved difficult. Calls in support of dividing the country, notably by Georgievski, who resigned as VMRO-DPMNE leader in 2003, incited public opinion. Incidents at the border with Kosovo involving Albanian militants also raised tensions. In this situation, President Trajkovski, a staunch advocate of the FYRM’s integration into Western institutions, emerged as a source of stability. He advocated transforming the country from an object of international stabilization (NATO peacekeeping duties were transferred to the EU Proxima mission in 2003) into a viable candidate for membership of those organizations. However, Trajkovski was killed in a plane crash in Bosnia and Herzegovina on 26 February 2004.</p>
          <p>In an early presidential election held in April 2004, Crvenkovski defeated a VMRO-DPMNE deputy, Saško Kedev, with 62.7% of the votes in the second round. Hari Kostov of the SDSM became Prime Minister. The new Government concluded tense negotiations with the BDI and a junior coalition partner, the Liberalno-Demokratska Partija (LDP—Liberal Democratic Party), over the redemarcation of municipal boundaries. The total number of administrative districts was to be reduced from 123 to 84, and Albanian was to become an official language in a number of districts, including Skopje, where the ethnic Albanian community passed the 20% threshold stipulated in the Ohrid Agreement. A riot broke out in Struga, a municipality where Albanians would become a majority as a result of the changes. Nationalist groups such as the Svetski Makedonski Kongres (World Macedonian Congress), a diaspora organization, gathered enough support to initiate a referendum on the proposed administrative redemarcation. This took place on 7 November, but failed due to voter participation of only 26%. On 4 November the USA had recognized the FYRM under its constitutional name, the Republic of Macedonia.</p>
          <p>Kostov resigned as Prime Minister on 15 November 2004, following conflict with the BDI. He was succeeded by Vlado Bučkovski, the new Chairman of the SDSM. In the new Government the ethnic Albanian parties gained two additional ministries. Shortly afterwards Albanian paramilitaries seized the village of Kondovo, which had been integrated into the Skopje municipality. The BDI and PDSh leaders, Ahmeti and Xhaferi respectively, intervened, negotiating a withdrawal. The events prompted a debate over whether to grant amnesty to all involved in the 2001 conflict. In March 2005, however, former Minister of Internal Affairs Ljube Boškovski was indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) at The Hague, Netherlands, for ordering the killing of Albanian civilians in the village of Ljuboten in 2001. His extradition to the ICTY by Croatia prompted protests across the FYRM.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section id="MK.12786734941" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Seeking European Integration</heading>
          <p>In November 2005 the European Commission recommended the country for membership negotiations, and in December EU member states granted the FYRM the status of candidate country. However, no date for the opening of accession negotiations was announced. Meanwhile, the EU terminated its Proxima mission in recognition that a level of stability had been restored. In March 2006 EU foreign ministers indicated that enlargement towards South-Eastern Europe (beyond the expansion already agreed, to include Bulgaria and Romania) would be a much lengthier process than had been envisaged; the impasse with Greece over the FYRM’s constitutional name also continued to hinder accession.</p>
          <p>Legislative elections were held on 5 July 2006. Although the election campaign began amid mutual allegations by the SDSM and the opposition of corruption and illicit deals, the two sides co-operated on a new electoral code to ensure fair conduct of the polls. The VMRO-DPMNE, now led by Gruevski, won 32.5% of the votes cast, compared with the 23.3% obtained by the SDSM. With 12.2% of the overall vote, the BDI, in coalition with the PPD, secured a majority of the Albanian votes, while the PDSh won 7.2%. However, only around 56% of the registered electorate participated in the elections, the lowest rate since independence.</p>
          <p>In August 2006 Gruevski and the VMRO-DPMNE formed a coalition administration with the Nova Socijaldemokratska Partija (NSDP—New Social Democratic Party), led by former SDSM presidential candidate Tito Petkovski, and the PDSh (its coalition partner in 1998-2002), prompting protests by the BDI, which contested that it was entitled to be in government as the dominant representative of the Albanian population. The BDI-PPD coalition organized mass demonstrations and, from January 2007, boycotted sessions of the Assembly. The impasse continued, with the BDI supported by the SDSM, now led by Radmila Šekerinska, as well as by President Crvenkovski. Although EU-&#160;and US-mediated consultations between the VMRO-DPMNE and the BDI began in March, progress proved slow. There was profound disagreement over which legislation should be adopted by a majority of deputies from each ethnic community (the so-called `Badinter principle’) and whether government coalitions should be formed on the same basis. In May the BDI decided to resume participation in the Assembly, after it had reached agreement with the VMRO-DPMNE.</p>
          <p>The prospect of joining NATO by the end of the 2000s initially appeared auspicious. In 2003 the FYRM, together with Croatia and Albania, signed the so-called `Adriatic Charter’, a US-supported initiative for accelerated military reform and regional security co-operation. Importantly, both the SDSM and the VMRO-DPMNE Governments sought to cultivate close relations with the USA. The FYRM contributed a small contingent to the NATO mission in Afghanistan and joined coalition forces in Iraq in December, as well as being involved with the EU-led mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The FYRM Government supported US initiatives in Kosovo, including a plan submitted by the UN Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for the Future Status Process for Kosovo, Martti Ahtisaari, which provided for an internationally supervised transition to independence. Gruevski was the first western Balkan leader publicly to express support for the plan. Indeed, membership of Euro-Atlantic institutions, highly popular with all Macedonian and Albanian parties alike, was seen as the principal insurance policy against the FYRM’s vulnerability to instability across its borders. However, the dispute with Greece over the constitutional name of the Republic severely impeded its Euro-Atlantic institutions, and Gruevski was perhaps too reliant on the support of the USA, not least as, after Kosovo declared independence on 17 February 2008, the stability of the FYRM appeared to be of paramount concern to the West.</p>
          <p>Negotiations with Greece, which continued until 2008, proved inconclusive. The FYRM refused to concede to Greek proposals that the Republic adopt a composite name. Consequently, Greece vetoed the issuing of an invitation to the FYRM to join NATO at the Alliance’s summit, held in Bucharest, Romania, in April. Greece’s stance was, moreover, supported by influential countries such as France.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section id="MK.15312366661" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Majority VMRO-DPMNE Government</heading>
          <p>Gruevski utilized the country’s difficult international situation to maximize his power domestically. A proposal, initiated by the VMRO-DPMNE and supported by the BDI (but opposed by the PDSh and the SDSM), to schedule early elections strengthened his position and that of the VMRO-DPMNE. In legislative elections on 1 June 2008 the VMRO-DPMNE and its coalition partners secured 48.8% of the votes cast, obtaining 63 seats in the 120-seat Assembly—the first time that a coalition or party had succeeded in obtaining an absolute majority of seats. A coalition led by the SDSM was placed second, with 23.7% of the votes cast and 27 seats. Polling day was marred by gun fights between supporters of the rival ethnic Albanian parties, the BDI and the PDSh, in the Skopje neighbourhood of Čair and in Aračinovo, in which one person was killed. This violence was a source of great concern for the EU, and, following warnings from Union officials, a second round of voting was organized in 187 polling stations where voting had been disrupted. The electoral reruns on 15 June confirmed the BDI’s victory over the PDSh, after it won, in total, 12.8% of the votes cast nationwide (and 18 seats), compared with the 8.5% of the votes and 11 seats obtained by the latter party. (This outcome was upheld after further voting was conducted in a few polling stations on 29 June, following further disruptions.) Despite holding a parliamentary majority, the parties of the VMRO-DPMNE-led coalition formed a coalition with the BDI, excluding the PDSh. The latter party absorbed the PPD, after it received only 0.5% of the votes in the elections. Most VMRO-DPMNE members of the outgoing administration were reappointed to the new Government.</p>
          <p>The parliamentary vote further consolidated the power wielded by Gruevski and his party. This ascendancy was confirmed at the presidential poll and local elections held on 22 March 2009 (with a second round on 5 April). The presidential election resulted in victory for a non-party member nominated by the VMRO-DPMNE, Gjorge Ivanov, a law professor, who won 35.1% of votes cast in the first round and 63.1% in the second. Ivanov defeated his former colleague at the faculty of law in Skopje and the SDSM candidate, Ljubomir Frčkoski (who received 20.5% of votes cast in the first round), as well as Imer Selmani of the newly established Demokracia e Re (DR—New Democracy) and Boškovski, a highly popular figure for many radical nationalists, who had returned to the FYRM, following his acquittal by the ICTY in July 2008. The VMRO-DPMNE also secured, for the first time, the mayorship of Skopje, and obtained control of some 54 other municipalities (of a total of 84). One of the prominent issues in the pre-election period was the public campaign known as `antiquization’, sponsored by the VMRO-DPMNE, that promoted the notion of historical continuity between the ancient Macedon of Philip and Alexander `the Great’ and the FYRM; this policy greatly antagonized Greece.</p>
          <p>Meanwhile, in November 2008 the FYRM Government began legal proceedings against Greece at the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in The Hague, Netherlands, over the alleged violation of the 1995 interim accord (which stipulated that Greece would not veto the FYRM’s accession to international institutions under that provisional name). The VMRO-DPMNE leadership argued that the acceptance of a composite name such as `North Macedonia’, as proposed by Greece, would, in effect, amount to a betrayal of national identity, as it would open discussion on further questions such as the name of the nation and its language. However, this argument alerted Greek diplomats about these matters, which thus became included in the negotiations. Although supported by a considerable proportion of the Slav Macedonians, the Government’s ever-hardening stance was deeply unpopular with the ethnic Albanian parties, which urged compromise with Greece in the interests of rapid NATO entry and EU accession. The adverse effects of the impasse became apparent on 7 April 2009, when Albania and Croatia were formally admitted to NATO, while Greece vetoed the FYRM’s membership.</p>
          <p>Another outcome of the elections in early 2009 was the redistribution of power within the Albanian community, with the BDI losing control of all the important Albanian-majority municipalities apart from Struga. The PDSh gained power in Tetovo, while the independent Rufi Osmani, regarded by the community as a hero in the political rights struggles of the 1990s, won in Gostivar, as did Bastri Bajrami in Aračinovo; both were supported by DR. The leader of the party, Selmani (formerly of the PDSh), who obtained support from ethnic Macedonians as well as Albanians, had been placed third in the first round of the presidential contest, with 15.0% of the votes. There were no major immediate political repercussions when the FYRM, together with Montenegro, decided to recognize independent Kosovo on 9 October 2008, despite predictions of the potential re-emergence of ethnic conflict. In October 2009 the Governments of Kosovo and the FYRM reached an agreement on the demarcation of their countries’ common border, involving a minor exchange of territory, and established diplomatic relations, despite Serbian protestations.</p>
          <p>
      The publication of an encyclopedia by the Macedonian Academy of Sciences and Arts in September 2009 precipitated mass protests by Albanians in the FYRM, who were incensed by, 
      <i>inter alia</i>
      , the claim that their community had settled in the territory of the country only in the 16th century. The BDI leader Ali Ahmeti, described in the publication as a `suspected war criminal’, threatened to file a lawsuit and to withdraw from the governing coalition. The Academy withdrew the publication in November and formed a committee, charged with preparing a revised edition. Meanwhile, the Government announced several major initiatives in accordance with the policy of `antiquization’, notably the `Skopje 2014’ project, which was to include the construction of buildings inspired by Greco-Roman architecture in central Skopje, with a large equine statue of Alexander `the Great’ to be erected in the main square, together with numerous other monuments to prominent figures associated with Macedonia, ranging from antiquity to the 20th century. Such plans attracted criticism from op­position parties, non-governmental organizations and civic groups, in addition to antagonizing many ethnic Albanians. The emphasis on promoting a sense of national identity and history appeared to take priority over addressing the international economic crisis, which had a severe effect on the country’s already underperforming economy by 2009 and necessitated the introduction of austerity measures.
    </p>
          <p>In November 2009 the European Commission ruled that the FYRM had met the minimum institutional and political standards needed to launch membership negotiations with the EU, but Greece prevented the Council of the EU from implementing the recommendation. None the less, in December the Union lifted the visa requirements for citizens of the FYRM (along with those of Montenegro and Serbia) wishing to enter the Schengen zone of 26 European countries. In November 2010 the European Commission confirmed that the FYRM’s dispute with Greece remained the only main obstacle to the commencement of accession negotiations.</p>
          <p>Domestic events in 2010 and early 2011 demonstrated a deterioration in relations between the Government and op­position. The VMRO-DPMNE Government began to implement the `Skopje 2014’ project. It also initiated repressive measures against a major independent television channel, A1&#160;TV, which had frequently criticized Gruevski and his administration. In November 2010 the offices of the television station were raided by police over alleged tax crimes, and in December its owner, Velija Ramkovski, and 16 executives from associated companies were arrested for suspected tax evasion and other corruption offences. These arrests prompted a protest campaign by the SDSM, now led by Crvenkovski. In December, in a demonstration of support for A1 TV, the SDSM initiated a boycott of parliamentary sessions, which was joined by the NSDP, DR, and allied liberal parties. With the PDSh having failed to participate in sessions since 2009, this development further eroded the Assembly’s legitimacy. The opposition also urged US and EU representatives to increase pressure on Gruevski to reach a compromise. Another point of contention was amendments to electoral legislation providing for an increase in the representation of the Assembly by three deputies, who were to be elected by the Macedonian diaspora, a measure that clearly favoured the VMRO-DPMNE. The impasse between the Government and opposition ended on 23 February 2011, when Gruevski ceded to demands by the SDSM for early legislative elections. The Assembly was duly dissolved on 14 April.</p>
          <p>The early elections of 5 June 2011 were predictably won by the VMRO-DPMNE, which obtained 39.0% of votes cast and 56 seats, although its share of the votes had declined since 2008. The SDSM increased its representation by 15 seats (winning 42 in total) in the Assembly, with 32.8% of the votes cast. The BDI again emerged as the leading party in the Albanian community (with 10.2% of votes and 15 seats), reinforcing its position as a coalition partner for the VMRO-DPMNE, while the PDSh received only eight seats (with 5.9% of votes). DR failed to secure representation, but the Rilindja Demokratike Kombëtare (National Democratic Revival) of Rufi Osmani won two seats.</p>
          <p>The VMRO-DPMNE’s relatively weaker victory served to increase the bargaining power of the BDI in the negoti­ations over a new coalition administration. On the day after the elections Boškovski, whose extreme nationalist Obedineti za Makedonija (United for Macedonia) had failed to secure parliamentary representation, was arrested over alleged embezzlement of party funds. Public protests were also staged in Skopje, after a young man died as a result of an assault by a special police officer during the celebrations of the VMRO-DPMNE’s electoral victory. On 29 July the Assembly approved the formation of a new VMRO-DPMNE-led coalition Government, again under the premiership of Gruevski and retaining many members of the previous administration. Gruevski protested against the European Commission’s regular progress report in October, which criticized the FYRM’s deterioration in areas such as the freedom of the media.</p>
          <p>Work on the `Skopje 2014’ project continued, with the installation of the statue of Alexander `the Great’ in mid-2011. A statue of Philip II was erected in May 2012, on the north bank of the Vardar, while surrounding areas of the city on both sides of the river had been transformed by the construction of a number of neoclassical public buildings, including a ceremonial arch. Meanwhile, a further project in Skopje’s Albanian-dominated municipality of Čair was launched with the renaming of a square after the Albanian national hero Gjergj Kastrioti (Skënderbeu). Such public campaigns placed strains on inter-ethnic relations. A series of clashes between youths from the two ethnic groups occurred from mid-January 2012. These culminated on 12 April, when five ethnic Macedonians (including four youths) were found shot and killed at the village of Smilkovci, near Skopje. The killings precipitated a series of protests by ethnic Macedonians, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs’ special police apprehended 20 Albanian suspects, allegedly Islamist radicals, prompting large-scale protests by ethnic Albanians in Skopje and elsewhere. Although political parties from both ethnic groups sought to calm ethnic passions, the appointment of Talat Xhaferi, a former UÇK—M commander, as Minister of Defence in February 2013 precipitated violent protests by ethnic Macedonians and counter-demonstrations by ethnic Albanians in Skopje. The public welcome received by Johan Tarčulovski, a police officer sentenced by the ICTY in 2008 for murdering Albanian civilians in 2001, upon his early release in April 2013 provided a vivid illustration of the tense nature of communal relations.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section id="MK.15312363281" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Recurrent Crises</heading>
          <p>The stalled EU integration process accentuated political polarization within the country. In December 2012 opposition deputies were ejected from a parliamentary session for brawling during a vote on the 2013 budget. The VMRO-DPMNE accused the SDSM of attempting to overthrow the Government, after which the SDSM continued a parliamentary boycott and staged a series of demonstrations in Skopje and elsewhere. The opposition demanded that early legislative elections be held in conjunction with municipal polls in March 2013. Only emergency intervention by the European Commissioner for Enlargement and European Neighbourhood Policy Štefan Füle and a former President of the European Parliament, Jerzy Buzek, convinced the SDSM to reconsider and agree to participate in the municipal elections. However, as the resolution was reached on 1 March, the opposition had little time to organize a full electoral campaign, thereby helping the VMRO-DPMNE to emerge victorious after the elections conducted in late March and early April (although the SDSM secured the Skopje municipality of Centar). Despite the formation of an electoral coalition by the local branches of the SDSM and the VMRO-DPMNE in Kičevo, the municipality was won by the BDI, which also gained control of Tetovo from the PDSh.</p>
          <p>From mid-2013 relations between the VMRO-DPMNE and the BDI deteriorated. As the presidential election scheduled for April 2014 approached, Ali Ahmeti demanded that a consensus candidate be nominated by the coalition. Gruevski’s refusal to agree to this led to early parliamentary elections, which were held concurrently with the second round of the presidential election on 27 April. With 43.0% of the votes cast, the VMRO-DPMNE increased its legislative representation to 61 seats (one short of an overall majority), while the BDI garnered four additional mandates (securing a total of 19 seats, with 13.7% of the votes). The SDSM and the PDSh, secured 25.3% of the votes (34 seats) and 5.9% (seven seats), respectively. In the concurrent second round of the presidential contest, which was boycotted by the BDI, the incumbent Ivanov defeated the SDSM candidate, Stevo Pendarovski, receiving 55.3% of the votes cast, compared with the latter’s 41.1%. A rapprochement was subsequently reached between Gruevski and Ahmeti in the formation of a new coalition cabinet, with no major ministerial changes. However, the prolonged coalition negotiations were marred by ethnically motivated riots in Skopje following the murder of a Macedonian teenager, apparently by an ethnic Albanian youth, on 19 May. A vote of confidence in the new Government, held on 19 June, was boycotted by the SDSM parliamentary deputies, who accused the winning parties of electoral fraud.</p>
          <p>With the entrenchment of the VMRO-DPMNE in power, political polarization and the ongoing impasse with Greece, the EU’s power as a mediator entered a period of decline. Meanwhile, neighbouring states overtook the FYRM in their respective attempts to attain EU membership: Montenegro commenced EU membership negotiations in June 2012, while Serbia had been awarded EU candidate status three months earlier and, following an agreement with Kosovo in 2013, accession talks were initiated with Serbia in January 2014. Meanwhile, bilateral tensions escalated in December 2012, when Bulgaria, effectively supporting Greece, refused to approve the initiation of the FYRM’s accession negoti­ations with the EU. Progress on the signature of a new friendship treaty between the two countries, a condition stipulated by Bulgaria, stalled in 2013. Although the ICJ ruled in December 2011 that Greece was in breach of the 1995 interim agreement by vetoing the FYRM’s application to join NATO in 2008, Greece’s opposition to the country’s integration into the EU and NATO continued.</p>
          <p>From January 2015 the FYRM experienced a grave political crisis, which was precipitated by the release by SDSM leader Zoran Zaev of telephone recordings implicating Gruevski and other senior officials in electoral malpractice, high-level corruption and even concealment of murder. Large anti-Government protests ensued, culminating in early May in clashes between students and riot police outside the government headquarters in Skopje. Meanwhile, on 9-10 May security forces staged an operation reportedly directed against a group of ethnic Albanian militants based in Kumanovo. The fighting, in which eight special police officers and 14 militants were killed, prompted fears of a repeat of the 2001 conflict. The opposition accused Gruevski of orchestrating the incident in order to divert attention from the state surveillance scandal. Following a meeting between the Government and Western ambassadors, the Ministers of Internal Affairs and of Transport and Communications, as well as the powerful head of the counter-intelligence agency, Gruevski’s cousin Sašo Mijalkov, tendered their resignations. After two mass rallies, which were convened on 17 and 18 May by the SDSM and the VMRO-DPMNE, respectively, tensions began to abate as the leaders of the four main parties (the VMRO-DPMNE, the SDSM, the BDI and the PDSh) entered into talks mediated by the EU Commissioner responsible for European Neighbourhood Policy and Enlargement Negotiations, Johannes Hahn. The ensuing Pržino agreement of 15 July provided for an end to the SDSM’s parliamentary boycott, the nomination of new ministers of the interior and of labour and social policy and three deputy ministers by the SDSM, and the formation of a new government in January 2016, which would oversee early elections in April. A Special Prosecutor, Katica Janeva, was mandated to investigate the allegations of high-level corruption that had emerged.</p>
          <p>Following Gruevski’s resignation, Emil Dimitriev, the Secretary-General of the VMRO-DPMNE, became interim Prime Minister on 18 January. However, the implementation of the Pržino agreement soon faltered. Intervention from the EU and the USA, prompted by concerns over the voting register, resulted in the Assembly, with the support of the VMRO-DPMNE and the BDI, postponing the polls scheduled for 24 April to 5 June. However, in early April a new crisis erupted, after the SDSM, followed by the Albanian parties, decided to boycott the elections. Later in April President Ivanov granted amnesty to all 56 politicians under investigation by the Special Prosecutor, precipitating a series of daily anti-Government demonstrations in Skopje and elsewhere. The `colourful revolution’, led by the `Protestiram’ (`I Protest’) civic movement, splashed paint over the facades and monuments that had been built as part of the `Skopje 2014’ project.</p>
          <p>After intervention by the EU’s High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Federica Mogherini, and US diplomats, and a ruling by the Constitutional Court that the dissolution of the Assembly prior to the early polls had been in breach of the Constitution, on 18 May 2016 the Assembly reconvened and agreed to yet another postponement of the legislative elections. On the same day the Assembly voted in favour of accepting the resignation of the SDSM representatives in the interim Government (tendered in April), replacing them with VMRO-DPMNE members. On 6 June President Ivanov fully revoked the pardons that had been issued in April. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Zoran Stavreski, one of the politicians implicated in the illicit recordings, resigned on medical grounds on 14 June. A new agreement was reached between the four principal parties in July, with EU and US mediation, providing for legislative elections to be held by the end of the year. The VMRO-DPMNE sought further international support, with Gruevski meeting Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán prior to the polls, as well as Austria’s Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and Foreign Affairs (later Chancellor) Sebastian Kurz. Gruevski and his supporters made efforts to present themselves as guarantors that the country would continue to fulfil its role in controlling migrant flows to Europe, after the issue had become prominent across Central Europe in 2015-16.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section id="MK.15312367711" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Developments in 2016-23</heading>
          <p>The legislative elections on 11 December 2016 were inconclusive. Although the VMRO-DPMNE was first-placed, with 38.1% of the votes cast and 51 seats, the SDSM was only slightly behind (36.7% and 49 seats). Established ethnic Albanian parties, the BDI and the PDSh, lost support to breakaway associations emerging as contenders, the ethnic Albanian Lëvizja Besa (BESA—Besa Movement), headed by Bilal Kasami, and Ziadin Sela’s Aleanca për Shqiptarët (ASh—Alliance for Albanians), which subsequently reconstituted itself as a party. With 4.9% and five seats, and 3.0% and three seats, respectively, they overtook the PDSh (with 2.6% and two seats). In an unprecedented development, around 70,000 ethnic Albanian votes were cast for the SDSM. Efforts to form a new administration reached an impasse, as Gruevski and BDI leader Ahmeti failed to reach an agreement. Despite their fractious relations, the principal ethnic Albanian parties agreed on a common platform, with the mediation of Albania’s Prime Minister Edi Rama, and issued a number of demands, including for full linguistic equality and a debate on the flag, national anthem and state symbols. Their escalating demands provided Gruevski with an excuse to rally VMRO-DPMNE supporters in street demonstrations, obstructing the formation of a new government and aiming to precipitate further elections. Meanwhile, President Ivanov refused to grant a government mandate to SDSM leader Zaev. The tensions reached their height on 27 April, when the new Assembly elected Talat Xhaferi of the BDI as parliamentary President, presaging a coalition government agreement between the SDSM and ethnic Albanian parties. Macedonian nationalist protesters stormed the parliamentary building and assaulted SDSM and allied deputies, injuring several. The incident intensified international pressure on Ivanov, including from EU officials Mogherini and Hahn, but crucially from the US Department of State. A two-day visit by Hoyt Brian Yee, Deputy Assistant Secretary for European and Eurasian Affairs at the Department, was followed in May by Ivanov’s decision to ask Zaev to form an administration. The new Government was finally formed on 31 May; it included ministers representing the SDSM’s smaller coalition partners (including the NSDP, the LDP and the Makedonya Türk Hareket Partisi—Turkish Movement Party of Macedonia) and an independent (businessman Kočo Angjušev as Deputy Prime Minister, responsible for Economic Affairs and Coordination of Economic Resources). The BDI secured control of five ministries, and two were awarded to the ASh. One of the new administration’s first decisions was to halt the `Skopje 2014’ development project.</p>
          <p>The Zaev Government consolidated its power at local elections held on 15 and 29 October 2017. The SDSM won the mayoral contest in 57 municipalities, compared with only four in 2013, while the number secured by the VMRO-DPMNE-led coalition fell from 56 to five. The BDI meanwhile lost some support to the ASh and the BESA. Nevertheless, the results emboldened Zaev to move on the question of the status of the Albanian language. On 15 November the Assembly passed a law making Albanian an official language nationwide, with VMRO-DPMNE deputies voting against it. Following a veto of the law by President Ivanov, on 14 March 2018 it was approved by a second parliamentary vote (after which the President was no longer constitutionally empowered to prevent its implementation). During the proceedings a clash broke out in the chamber, with former Prime Minister Gruevski attempting to seize the microphone from parliamentary President Xhaferi. In the aftermath, Ivanov again refused to sign the new law into force.</p>
          <p>However, the tensions over the new legislation appeared minor in comparison with the outcry against Zaev’s foreign policy initiatives, particularly the efforts to resolve the question of the country’s name with Greece. To relaunch the process of EU and NATO integration, the Government sought to mend ties with neighbours. The long-delayed friendship treaty with Bulgaria was signed on 1 August 2017 by Prime Ministers Zaev and Boyko Borisov in Skopje. The treaty provided for the joint celebration of historical events and personalities. In addition, a commission of historians was created to examine the controversial issues surrounding the past. The VMRO-DPMNE opposed such measures and opposed the ratification of the treaty with Bulgaria.</p>
          <p>However, it was negotiations with Greece, resumed during a visit of Minister of Foreign Affairs Nikola Dimitrov to Athens, the Greek capital, on 14 June 2017, which delivered the most important breakthrough. By the time that Zaev held proximity talks with Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras during an EU-Western Balkans summit in Sofia, Bulgaria, in May 2018, it became apparent that a settlement was imminent. On 12 June Zaev announced that an agreement had finally been reached. Formalized five days later, at a ceremony on an island in Lake Prespa at the border of the two countries, the accord (known as the Prespa agreement) provided for the constitutional adoption of the name `Republic of North Macedonia’, which would be used in its relations with all other countries. Zaev agreed to initiate constitutional changes that would be submitted to a referendum in September. In return, Greece committed to withdraw its objections to the country’s eventual membership of the EU and NATO. At a meeting of EU ministers of foreign affairs on 26 June, it accordingly supported the opening of accession talks with the FYRM; however, with opposition from some influential member states, a decision on the opening of accession talks with the FYRM (and Albania) was deferred until June 2019, and remained conditional on continued progress in reforms. Greece pressed for the FYRM to be invited to join NATO at a summit in July 2018, and if the September referendum endorsed the bilateral agreement, Tsipras also committed to secure its ratification by the Greek Parliament in November. Zaev gained domestic support for the accord by insisting that Greece recognize Macedonian nationhood, as well as the Macedonian language. However, opposition in Greece to the agreement was high: both Nea Demokratia (ND—New Democracy), the main opponent of Tsipras’s ruling Synaspismos Rizospastikis Aristeras (SYRIZA—Coalition of the Radical Left), and Anexartitoi Ellines (ANEL—Independent Greeks), SYRIZA’s smaller coalition partner, presented strong objections. In early 2018 mass popular rallies against a compromise had taken place in both Thessaloniki and Athens. To secure parliamentary approval of the agreement, along with the protocol on the FYRM’s accession to NATO, Tsipras would need support from the opposition. Meanwhile, Zaev faced domestic resistance from the VMRO-DPMNE, headed by a new leader, Hristijan Mickoski, and from President Ivanov, who refused to sign into force the parliamentary act ratifying the agreement with Greece. However, on 5 July the agreement was ratified by the Assembly for the second time, in a vote boycotted by the VMRO-DPMNE and with all 69 participating deputies in favour. At the NATO summit on 11-12 July, the FYRM accordingly received a formal invitation to join the Alliance and membership talks were launched; the country’s accession was dependent on approval of the name agreement through amendment of the Constitution.</p>
          <p>There was no shortage of resistance to the settlement negotiated by Zaev. Owing to a widely observed boycott led by nationalist groups, and supported by President Ivanov and, ultimately, the VMRO-DPMNE, the consultative referendum on 30 September 2018 failed to reach the 50% threshold required for validation of the result (with a voter turnout of around 37%). Nevertheless, more than 94% of the 666,344 citizens participating supported the name change. Prior to the vote, an unprecedented number of foreign politicians and high-ranking officials visited the country to support Zaev. He seized the momentum and on 19 October introduced a package of constitutional amendments in the Assembly. After eight parliamentary deputies of the VMRO-DPMNE (who were expelled from the party) supported the governing coalition, it subsequently secured the two-thirds’ majority required to amend the Constitution in a final vote on 11 January 2019. Many civic activists, however, were disappointed that amnesty legislation had been adopted in the previous December, which would permit some of the VMRO-DPMNE defectors to apply for exemption from criminal prosecution in connection with the storming of the parliamentary building in April 2017. Meanwhile, Gruevski also appeared to have evaded justice. After his two-year prison sentence on corruption charges was confirmed, in November 2018 he fled to Hungary, where he was granted asylum. Nevertheless, the narrow ratification of the Prespa agreement by the Greek Parliament on 25 January 2019, with rebel ANEL members supporting SYRIZA in the vote, followed by the formal signature of a NATO accession protocol in Brussels on 6 February, in effect brought to completion the accord negotiated by Zaev and Tsipras. Having opposed the Prespa agreement, ND supported Greece’s ratification of the NATO protocol shortly afterwards, arguing that it was a matter of legal obligation for the country. On 12 February the Prespa agreement with Greece officially entered into force, allowing the country to be renamed as the Republic of North Macedonia. With the North Macedonia authorities rapidly changing all official signs to reflect this change in mid-February, co-operation with Greece also advanced. On 2 April Tsipras made a historic visit to Skopje, the first by a Greek leader, together with a 100-member business delegation. The opening of a new border crossing south of the town of Kavadarci was announced, with another such crossing having already been in operation in the Prespa region since February. On 7 May Pope Francis was welcomed in North Macedonia, in the first visit by a pontiff in the country’s history.</p>
          <p>The expiry of Ivanov’s presidential term in May 2019 added momentum to the aspirations of the country. Ivanov was succeeded as President by Pendarovski, a staunch advocate of the Prespa agreement, and who had served as co-ordinator for the NATO accession process. Nominated as a joint candidate of the SDSM and the BDI, Pendarovski defeated the VMRO-DPMNE candidate, Gordana Siljanovska Davkova, in the second round of voting on 5 May 2019 (after a first round on 21 April). Pendarovski secured 51.7% of the votes, compared with 44.8% for his opponent. The new President’s election allowed controversial legislation, such as amendments approved by the Assembly, which had been blocked by Ivanov, to advance.</p>
          <p> Having secured the implementation of the Prespa agreement, Zaev’s Government faced the daunting task of curbing endemic corruption and state capture by strengthening independent institutions, such as the Office of the Public Prosecutor. This was particularly problematic in view of the diverse interests in the coalition, the BDI’s continued influence, and the SDSM’s lacklustre record prior to 2006. Gruevski’s escape from justice and the partial amnesty offered to the VMRO-DPMNE members implicated in the April 2017 violence came as warning signs. The EU’s role in pushing for fundamental reform remained essential. Zaev hoped to secure approval for the opening of accession negotiations in 2019. However, EU foreign ministers postponed the decision twice: in June 2019 and then in October, due to the insistence of French President Emmanuel Macron that the enlargement strategy be revised. As a result, on 19 October Zaev announced that he would resign as Prime Minister and seek a fresh mandate through early elections. As in 2015-16, a new `technical’ Government, which included VMRO-DPMNE representatives, was formed under an agreement mediated by President Pendarovski. Oliver Spasovski of the SDSM, hitherto Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Internal Affairs, became Prime Minister of the new interim administration on 3 January 2020. However, as a result of the escalating COVID-19 pandemic and the declaration of a national state of emergency on 18 March, the Government postponed early legislative elections, which had been originally scheduled for April.</p>
          <p>The postponed elections, which finally took place on 15 July 2020, were closely contested: the SDSM-led coalition, Možeme (We Can), obtained 35.9% of the votes cast and 46 seats, only narrowly ahead of the Obnova (Renewal) alliance led by VMRO-DPMNE, with 34.6% and 44 seats. The main ethnic Albanian parties gained support, the BDI securing 11.5% of the votes and 15 seats, and the ASh 9.0% and 12 seats (an increase of nine seats compared with the 2016 elections). Amid the pandemic, a voter turnout of 52.0% was recorded. Nevertheless, Zaev declared victory, and the SDSM began power-sharing negotiations, forming a new coalition Government with the BDI and affiliated parties in August.</p>
          <p>Despite the domestic political uncertainties, North Macedonia made progress on its EU course in early 2020. The proposal of a new accession methodology by the European Commission convinced France to withdraw its reservations. The Council of the EU then approved the opening of membership negotiations with both North Macedonia and Albania on 24 March. Three days later, North Macedonia officially joined NATO, after all member states of the Alliance had ratified its accession treaty. Greece, where the ND party had been elected to government in July 2019, continued to support membership, with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis arguing that he was constrained by international legal obligations under the Prespa agreement. However, on 17 November 2020 Bulgaria vetoed the start of EU accession talks with North Macedonia, citing lack of progress by the joint commission on historical issues that had been established under the 2017 friendship treaty and accusing North Macedonia of waging a `hate speech campaign’ against Bulgarians.</p>
          <p>The installation of a new coalition Government in Bulgaria in December 2021, following three rounds of legislative elections, created fresh momentum in the relationship with North Macedonia. The new Bulgarian Prime Minister, Kiril Petkov, headed an official delegation to Skopje on 18 January 2022, and announced a shift of focus in bilateral relations from historical disputes to co-operation on trade, investment and infrastructure. To many observers, this new rhetoric indicated preparations for the lifting of the veto. The war in Ukraine, following Russia’s invasion of that country on 24 February, also increased pressure to accelerate the EU integration of the Balkan states. However, the Bulgarian Government presented demands for the recognition of ethnic Bulgarians in North Macedonia as a minority group with guaranteed rights under the country’s Constitution. Furthermore, Petkov faced strong criticism by Bulgarian President Rumen Radev, as well as from within the governing coalition, for taking a moderate line on North Macedonia. </p>
          <p>Meanwhile, Dimitar Kovačevski, previously Deputy Minister of Finance, officially replaced Zaev as Macedonian Prime Minister in mid-January 2022. Zaev had resigned following losses suffered by the SDSM at local elections on 17 and 31 October 2021. VMRO-DPMNE had made substantial electoral gains and supported the victorious mayoral candidate in Skopje, Danela Arsovska, who had defeated the SDSM incumbent. The loss of voter support for the SDSM was attributed to weak growth (estimated at around 4.0% in 2021, following the economic contraction in 2020 amid the COVID-19 pandemic), anger at the pandemic-related lockdowns, lack of reform, stalled EU integration, and resentment at the compromises agreed with Greece, and potentially Bulgaria. In addition, Zaev had made his continued tenure as Prime Minister conditional on victory in Skopje. The reverse suffered by the government party encouraged VMRO-DPMNE to demand early parliamentary elections. Yet, the SDSM appeared intent on staying in office until the end of its term in 2024.</p>
          <p>After the Bulgarian legislature voted in June 2022 to end the country’s veto on North Macedonia’s EU membership talks, in early July the Macedonian Government accepted in principle a French-mediated compromise resolution to the dispute with Bulgaria, under which the existence of an ethnic Bulgarian minority would be recognized in North Macedonia’s Constitution. The proposed concessions precipitated violent protests in Skopje by supporters of VMRO-DPMNE. Nevertheless, on 16 July the agreement was approved by 68 votes cast in the Assembly (with opposition deputies withdrawing from the session); the opening of EU accession negotiations proceeded three days later.</p>
          <p>By mid-2023 the SDSM had tabled proposals for constitutional amendments to introduce Bulgarians into the Constitution, along with Jews, Egyptians, Croats, Slovenes and Montenegrins. This was required by the French/EU proposal as a step towards moving from the screening stage to commencing substantive accession negotiations. However, VMRO-DPMNE did not express support for the changes, insisting on the holding of early elections overseen by another technical government, with representatives from all major parties apart from the BDI. Meanwhile, in February 2023 Kovačevski’s Government had been reorganized, with the ASh joining the coalition and Alternativa (Alternative), a small Albanian party, leaving the cabinet. Nevertheless, the SDSM and the Albanian bloc remained short of the 80 votes needed to pass the constitutional changes. This came against a backdrop of further strained relations between North Macedonia and Bulgaria, after a legislative change in November 2022 required Bulgarian associations in Bitola and Ohrid to change their names.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Future Prospects</heading>
          <p>As a member of NATO that was finally launching EU accession talks, North Macedonia’s firm orientation towards the West was not in doubt. Whether the EU and, to a lesser degree, the NATO anchor would catalyse long-delayed institutional and governance changes, however, remained uncertain. Although the Macedonian economy has recovered from the economic contraction caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, the prospects are not encouraging. The country is faced with negative demographic trends, especially mass outward migration. The results of a long-delayed population census on 5 September 2021, announced in March 2022, showed that North Macedonia had lost about 9% of its population since 2002, with the total number at 1,836,713. The share of ethnic Macedonians had shrunk to around 58% of the total, while that of ethnic Albanians (24%) had remained stable. Meanwhile, regional developments, such as the continued dispute over Kosovo’s sovereignty, had continued political repercussions in neighbouring North Macedonia. The COVID-19 crisis also demonstrated the growing importance of China, which had dispatched medical supplies and vaccines to the region, especially to Serbia (where the authorities had offered vaccinations to visiting citizens from North Macedonia and other neighbouring countries).</p>
          <p>
      With such pressing challenges, North Macedonia perceives the EU as a safe heaven. Yet, despite the impact of the war in Ukraine, membership is not a prospect until the late 2020s at best. By the time it reaches the EU, North Macedonia would be likely to join only the outer circle of a restructured Union centred on the eurozone. Nevertheless, a compromise resolution to the longstanding dispute with Bulgaria, which had created a major obstacle in the EU integration process, had been
      
       formally accepted by North Macedonia’s Assembly in July 2022.
    </p>
     </gen-section>
</country-survey>