<?xml version="1.0"?>
<chronology id="GR.CHRON" id-root="gr" original-filename="unknown" region="CASEE" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>Chronology</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Greece</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Chronology</alt-heading>
     <chron-list>
          <chron-entry date="-1500-01-01">
               <chron-head>
        c. 1500 
        <sc>bce</sc>
               </chron-head>
               <chron-text>The early Greeks migrated to the Balkan peninsula from north of the River Danube, displacing the Minoan civil­ization that had spread from Crete (Kríti) to the southern coast of modern Greece. They established independent states and colonized the coastal regions of the Mediterranean.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="-1000-01-01" to-date="-1000-12-31">
               <chron-head>
        1000 
        <sc>bce</sc>
               </chron-head>
               <chron-text>Foundation of the Greek state of Sparta, a military society which came to dominate the southern Peloponnese.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="-0776-01-01" to-date="-0776-12-31">
               <chron-head>
        776 
        <sc>bce</sc>
               </chron-head>
               <chron-text>The first pan-Hellenic games were held, with athletes from all over the Aegean competing. The event is often cited as the first indication of a Greek national consciousness.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="-0699-01-01" to-date="-0500-12-31">
               <chron-head>
        7th-6th centuries 
        <sc>bce</sc>
               </chron-head>
               <chron-text>The city state of Athens (Athínai) developed the traditions of democracy.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="-0490-01-01" to-date="-0490-120-31">
               <chron-head>
        490 
        <sc>bce</sc>
               </chron-head>
               <chron-text>Persian forces (which had already subjugated the Greek states of Asia Minor) landed at Marathon in Greece and were eventually defeated by the Athenians.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="-0480-01-01" to-date="-0479-12-31">
               <chron-head>
        480-479 
        <sc>bce</sc>
               </chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Persians again invaded Greece. They advanced on Athens and burned down the city, but were eventually defeated at the Battle of Plataea.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="-0431-01-01" to-date="-0421-12-31">
               <chron-head>
        431-421 
        <sc>bce</sc>
               </chron-head>
               <chron-text>The first Peloponnesian War was fought between Athens and Sparta.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="-0413-01-01" to-date="-0404-12-31">
               <chron-head>
        413-404 
        <sc>bce</sc>
               </chron-head>
               <chron-text>The second Peloponnesian War ended with the defeat of Athens.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="-0359-01-01" to-date="-0359-12-31">
               <chron-head>
        359 
        <sc>bce</sc>
               </chron-head>
               <chron-text>Philip II acceded to the throne in Macedon. His military campaigns ended the independence of the Greek city states.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="-0336-01-01" to-date="-0336-12-31">
               <chron-head>
        336 
        <sc>bce</sc>
               </chron-head>
               <chron-text>
        Accession of Philip II’s son, Alexander III the Great’, who consolidated his father’s position in Greece and then proceeded to invade and conquer the Persian Empire, spread­ing Hellenic civilization as far as Egypt and the borders of India. Alexander died in 323 
        <sc>bc</sc>
        .
      </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="-0176-01-01" to-date="-0176-12-31">
               <chron-head>
        176 
        <sc>bce</sc>
               </chron-head>
               <chron-text>With the collapse of the Antigonid dynasty’s power outside Macedon proper, the Greek states proclaimed their independence with Roman patronage.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="-0168-01-01" to-date="-0168-12-31">
               <chron-head>
        168 
        <sc>bce</sc>
               </chron-head>
               <chron-text>Macedon was finally conquered by Rome, and Greece effectively came under imperial rule.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="0330-01-01" to-date="0330-12-31">
               <chron-head>
        330 
        <sc>ce</sc>
               </chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Roman Emperor, Constantine, re­named the city of Byzantium Constantinople (later İstanbul, Turkey—now known as Türkiye) and declared it his capital, the New Rome’.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="0395-01-01" to-date="0395-12-31">
               <chron-head>395</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following the death of Theodosius I, who had made Christianity the official religion of the Empire, the Empire was divided into East (Byzantine’) and West.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="0500-01-01" to-date="0699-12-31">
               <chron-head>6th-7th centuries</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Slavs invaded the Balkan peninsula.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1054-01-01" to-date="1054-12-31">
               <chron-head>1054</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Great Schism’ effectively formalized the division of the Church into Catholic West (led by the Roman patriarch, the Pope) and Orthodox East (led by the Patriarch of Constantinople), reflecting the political and cultural division of the Empire.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1204-01-01" to-date="1204-12-31">
               <chron-head>1204</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Fourth Crusade arrived in Constantinople and created the so-called Latin Empire of Constantinople’, dividing the Byzantine Empire into feudal states, ruled mostly by Frankish dynasties.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1259-01-01" to-date="1259-12-31">
               <chron-head>1259</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Byzantine Emperor Michael VIII captured the Peloponnese from its Frankish rulers, gaining control of Constantinople in 1261.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1453-01-01" to-date="1453-12-31">
               <chron-head>1453</chron-head>
               <chron-text>
        Ottoman troops captured Constantinople, beginning a period of Islamic rule over Greece. Within the Ottoman Empire Orthodox Christians were to be grouped in the Rum 
        <i>millet</i>
         (ethnoreligious community), headed by the Ecumenical Patriarch in Constantinople.
      </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1571-01-01" to-date="1571-12-31">
               <chron-head>1571</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At the Battle of Lepanto, off the northern coast of the Peloponnese, the Venetians and Spanish defeated the Ottoman navy, ending its dominance of the Medi­terranean.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1687-01-01" to-date="1687-12-31">
               <chron-head>1687</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Venetian forces captured Corinth and Athens.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1770-01-01" to-date="1770-12-31">
               <chron-head>1770</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A rebellion in the Peloponnese, supported by Russia, and on Crete, was defeated.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1786-01-01" to-date="1786-12-31">
               <chron-head>1786</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ottoman forces defeated a Russian-inspired rebellion in Epirus.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1814-01-01" to-date="1814-12-31">
               <chron-head>1814</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Three Greeks resident in Odessa (then in the Russian Empire, now Odesa, Ukraine) founded a movement in support of Greek independence, the Philiki Etairia (Friendly Society). Branches of the organization were established throughout Greece, meeting in secret.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1820-01-01" to-date="1820-12-31">
               <chron-head>1820</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ali Pasha, the Ottoman governor of Ioannina, began a rebellion against central rule.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1821-03-25">
               <chron-head>25 March 1821</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Greek flag was raised at a monastery in the Peloponnese, beginning the War of Independence.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1821-01-01" to-date="1822-12-31">
               <chron-head>1821-22</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ottoman forces suppressed a rebellion on Crete, which supported union with an independent Greek state.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1822-01-13">
               <chron-head>13 January 1822</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Supporters of independence having captured much territory, including Athens, Greek independence was proclaimed at Epidaurus.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1824-01-01" to-date="1827-12-31">
               <chron-head>1824-27</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Internal differences within the independence movement meant the imperial forces were able to regain large portions of the territory they had lost, including Athens.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1827-04-01" to-date="1827-04-30">
               <chron-head>April 1827</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ioannis Kapodistrias was elected President of Greece.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1827-10-20">
               <chron-head>20 October 1827</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Great Powers of France, Russia and the United Kingdom joined the conflict in support of Greek independence and defeated the Ottoman fleet at Navarino.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1828-01-01" to-date="1828-12-31">
               <chron-head>1828</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Russia declared war on the Ottoman Empire.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1829-09-16">
               <chron-head>16 September 1829</chron-head>
               <chron-text>By the Treaty of Adrianople, which concluded the war between Russia and the Ottomans, the latter recognized Greek autonomy.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>3 February 1930</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Protocol of London, agreed by the three Great Powers, established Greece as a sovereign state.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1831-01-01" to-date="1831-12-31">
               <chron-head>1831</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Kapodistrias was assassinated and the Great Powers created a hereditary monarchy. In 1833 the Bavarian Prince Otto accepted the throne (as King Othon) and moved the capital (hitherto at Nafplion—now Nafplio) to Athens.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1832-01-01" to-date="1832-12-31">
               <chron-head>1832</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Ottoman Empire formally recognized the independence of Greece.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1843-01-01" to-date="1843-12-31">
               <chron-head>1843</chron-head>
               <chron-text>King Othon convened a National Assembly, which drafted a Constitution providing for a bicameral parliament.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1862-01-01" to-date="1862-12-31">
               <chron-head>1862</chron-head>
               <chron-text>King Othon was deposed by the military and replaced by the Danish Prince William, who became King George I.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1864-01-01" to-date="1864-12-31">
               <chron-head>1864</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The UK officially ceded the Ionian Islands (a British protectorate since 1815) to Greece. A new Constitution, reducing monarchical powers, was enacted.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1881-01-01" to-date="1881-12-31">
               <chron-head>1881</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Great Powers forced the Ottomans to cede Thessaly and part of southern Epirus to Greece.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1897-01-01" to-date="1897-12-31">
               <chron-head>1897</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Greece’s plans to annex Crete resulted in conflict with the Ottomans. Following a peace settlement, the island became an international protectorate under King George I.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1905-01-01" to-date="1905-12-31">
               <chron-head>1905</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The President of Crete’s assembly, Elef­therios Venizelos, declared the island to be in union with Greece.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1910-01-01" to-date="1910-12-31">
               <chron-head>1910</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following a coup by the military in the previous year, Venizelos was elected Prime Minister of Greece.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1913-05-30">
               <chron-head>30 May 1913</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Treaty of London concluded the First Balkan War, in which a league of Bulgaria, Greece, Montenegro and Serbia removed the Turks from the bulk of their European possessions. Greece expanded north and throughout the Aegean, and Crete was united with the Kingdom.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1913-08-01" to-date="1913-08-31">
               <chron-head>August 1913</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Treaty of Bucharest concluded the Second Balkan War. Bulgaria lost Macedonia, which was divided between Serbia and Greece.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1916-10-01" to-date="1916-10-31">
               <chron-head>October 1916</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Owing to a dispute about Greece’s alignment in the First World War, Venizelos (who supported the Entente Powers, of France, Russia, Serbia and the UK, whereas King Konstantinos—Constantine—I imposed a policy of neutrality) established a rival Government in Thessaloniki.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1917-06-01" to-date="1917-06-30">
               <chron-head>June 1917</chron-head>
               <chron-text>France and the UK ousted the King and imposed Venizelos as Prime Minister of the whole of Greece.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1919-11-29">
               <chron-head>29 November 1919</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Treaty of Neuilly ceded Bulgarian territory to Greece. The Allied Powers had also granted Greece permission to occupy the region of Smyrna (now the Turkish city of İzmir) on the coast of Asia Minor.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1920-01-01" to-date="1920-12-31">
               <chron-head>1920</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Venizelos was defeated in legislative elections. A new, royalist administration restored the monarchy’s power.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1922-01-01" to-date="1922-12-31">
               <chron-head>1922</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Turkish nationalists drove back Greek forces, which had advanced far into Anatolia, forcing them to evacuate Smyrna. Thousands of refugees fled to Greece, and aspirations for a greater Greece’ were ended.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1923-01-01" to-date="1923-12-31">
               <chron-head>1923</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Treaty of Lausanne ordered the exchange of religious minorities in Greece and Turkey. Muslims resident in Greece resettled in Turkey, and more than 1m. Christians from Asia Minor moved to Greece.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1924-01-01" to-date="1924-12-31">
               <chron-head>1924</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The monarchy was abolished when King Konstantinos I was asked to abdicate by the military.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1928-01-01" to-date="1928-12-31">
               <chron-head>1928</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Venizelos was reappointed Prime Minister.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1935-01-01" to-date="1935-12-31">
               <chron-head>1935</chron-head>
               <chron-text>After a failed coup, a plebiscite approved the restoration of the monarchy and the accession of King George II.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1936-04-01" to-date="1936-04-30">
               <chron-head>April 1936</chron-head>
               <chron-text>King George II appointed Gen. Ioannis Metaxas as Prime Minister, resulting in the organization of industrial action by the Kommunistiko Komma Elladas (KKE—Communist Party of Greece).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1936-08-04">
               <chron-head>4 August 1936</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Metaxas persuaded the King to impose a revised constitution, in accordance with which the legislature was dissolved.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1940-10-28">
               <chron-head>28 October 1940</chron-head>
               <chron-text>During the Second World War, Italy’s leader, Benito Mussolini, demanded that Italian forces occupying Albania be permitted to pass through Greece; Metaxas refused this demand, resulting in an invasion of Italian forces.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1941-04-01" to-date="1941-04-30">
               <chron-head>April 1941</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Nazi Germany invaded Greece, which became subject to Bulgarian, German and Italian occupation. The King and his ministers fled into exile.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1944-10-01" to-date="1944-10-31">
               <chron-head>October 1944</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Greek and British forces liberated Greece. An agreement between the British and Soviet leaderships ensured that post-war Greece would not be part of the communist sphere of influence’.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1944-12-01" to-date="1944-12-31">
               <chron-head>December 1944</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Communist resistance groups launched an armed insurgency against the Government of Georgios Papandreou. Fighting continued until early 1945.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1946-01-01" to-date="1946-12-31">
               <chron-head>1946</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A general election in March resulted in victory for royalist parties. A referendum confirmed support for the restoration of the monarchy. Communist groups formed a Democratic Army, the confrontations of which with the official Greek army escalated into civil war.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1949-01-01" to-date="1949-12-31">
               <chron-head>1949</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The civil war ended, as communist forces were defeated.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1952-01-01" to-date="1952-12-31">
               <chron-head>1952</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Constitution was enacted, providing for a parliamentary democracy, with a monarch as head of state. The Ellinikos Synagermos (Greek Rally), led by Alexandros Papagos, won the general election.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1955-01-01" to-date="1955-12-31">
               <chron-head>1955</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Papagos died in office and was succeeded by Konstantinos Karamanlis, who dissolved the Ellinikos Synagermos and founded the Ethniki Rizospastiki Enosis (ERE—National Radical Union).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1956-01-01" to-date="1956-12-31">
               <chron-head>1956</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The ERE won an absolute majority of parliamentary seats in the general election, and again in 1958 and 1961.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1963-01-01" to-date="1963-12-31">
               <chron-head>1963</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Karamanlis resigned. In the resultant general election Georgios Papandreou’s Enosis Kentrou (Centre Union) won the greatest number of seats, although it failed to gain an absolute majority.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1964-01-01" to-date="1964-12-31">
               <chron-head>1964</chron-head>
               <chron-text>King Konstantinos II acceded to the throne on the death of his father, King Paul (who had succeeded George II in 1947). In further legislative elections, the Enosis Kentrou won an absolute majority of parliamentary seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1967-04-21">
               <chron-head>21 April 1967</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A group of army officers seized power, imposing military rule. Political leaders were arrested. A general election, scheduled for May, was postponed indefin­itely.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1967-12-13">
               <chron-head>13 December 1967</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Col Georgios Papadopoulos became Prime Minister. He assumed the foreign affairs portfolio in January 1970 and became Regent in March 1972.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1973-06-01">
               <chron-head>1 June 1973</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following a failed naval mutiny, the monarchy was abolished and Greece declared a republic, with Papadopoulos assuming the presidency in the following month.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1973-11-01" to-date="1973-11-30">
               <chron-head>November 1973</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Unrest among students at the National Polytechnic was violently suppressed by the army. Papadopoulos was ousted in an internal military coup led by Brig.-Gen. Demetrios Ioannidis. Lt-Gen. Phaedon Ghizikis was appointed President, and a largely civilian cabinet, led by Adamantios Androutsopoulos, was installed. However, effective power remained with Ioannidis.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1974-07-01" to-date="1974-07-31">
               <chron-head>July 1974</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following an unsuccessful attempt to depose the President of Cyprus, Archbishop Makarios, and the subsequent failure to prevent the Turkish invasion and occupation of northern Cyprus, the Androutsopoulos Government collapsed. The military regime was unable to retain power and Karamanlis was asked to return from exile to form a Government of National Salvation.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1974-11-01" to-date="1974-11-30">
               <chron-head>November 1974</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Karamanlis’s new party, Nea Dimokratia (ND—New Democracy), won an absolute majority of parliamentary seats at the general election.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1974-12-01" to-date="1974-12-31">
               <chron-head>December 1974</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A proposal to restore the monarchy was defeated in a plebiscite. Michael Stassinopoulos, head of the Council of State, was appointed President.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1975-06-11">
               <chron-head>June 1975</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Constitution was enacted, providing for a parliamentary republic with certain executive powers vested in the presidency. Konstantinos Tsatsos replaced Stassinopoulos as President.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1977-11-01" to-date="1977-11-30">
               <chron-head>November 1977</chron-head>
               <chron-text>ND was returned to power following legislative elections. The Panellínio Socialistiko Kinima (PASOK—Panhellenic Socialist Movement), led by Andreas Papandreou, became the second largest party in Parliament.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1980-05-01" to-date="1980-05-31">
               <chron-head>May 1980</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Karamanlis was elected President. Georgios Rallis succeeded him as premier.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1981-01-01">
               <chron-head>1 January 1981</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Greece joined the European Community (EC, now European Union—EU).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1981-10-01" to-date="1981-10-31">
               <chron-head>October 1981</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a general election, PASOK obtained an absolute majority in Parliament. Papandreou subsequently formed Greece’s first socialist Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1985-03-01" to-date="1985-03-31">
               <chron-head>March 1985</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Karamanlis resigned in protest at government plans to reduce presidential powers. He was succeeded by Christos Sartzetakis.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1985-06-01" to-date="1985-06-30">
               <chron-head>June 1985</chron-head>
               <chron-text>PASOK retained a majority of seats following elections to the Parliament.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1985-08-01" to-date="1985-08-31">
               <chron-head>August 1985</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Greece and Albania reopened their common frontier, closed since 1940. Greece renounced its claim to Northern Epirus, Albania.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1986-03-01" to-date="1986-03-31">
               <chron-head>March 1986</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament approved constitutional amendments, reducing presidential powers.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1988-01-01" to-date="1988-01-31">
               <chron-head>January 1988</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Greece and Turkey signed a no war’ agreement, after a decade of increasing tensions, which had brought the countries close to open conflict in March 1987.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1989-06-01" to-date="1989-06-30">
               <chron-head>June 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>ND won the greatest number of seats in parliamentary elections, but failed to obtain an overall majority. An interim Government was formed in July.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1989-11-01" to-date="1989-11-30">
               <chron-head>November 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>No party obtained a majority at further legislative elections. Another coalition administration was formed, led by Xenofon Zolotas. However, this Government collapsed in February 1990 and an interim non-political cabinet was installed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1990-04-01" to-date="1990-04-30">
               <chron-head>April 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>ND secured a one-seat majority in another round of elections, and was thus able to form a single-party Government, led by Konstantinos Mitsotakis. In May Karamanlis returned to the presidency.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1992-04-01" to-date="1992-04-30">
               <chron-head>April 1992</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Mitsotakis assumed responsibility for the foreign affairs portfolio in order to co-ordinate his Government’s opposition to attempts by the former Yugoslav territory of Macedonia to gain international recognition as the Republic of Macedonia, owing to fears of territorial claims on the Greek province of Macedonia. In March 1993 the Government accepted a United Nations (UN) proposal that the title the former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia’ (FYRM) be used temporarily, and that negotiations be pursued on a permanent name acceptable to both sides.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1993-10-01" to-date="1993-10-31">
               <chron-head>October 1993</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The loss of ND’s narrow majority in September precipi­tated a general election. PASOK won the largest number of seats and formed a Government, again led by Papan­dreou.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1995-03-10">
               <chron-head>10 March 1995</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Konstantinos Stefanopoulos, leader of the small Komma Dimokratikis Ananeosis (Party of Democratic Renewal), was elected President by the legislature.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1995-10-01" to-date="1995-10-31">
               <chron-head>October 1995</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Relations between Greece and the FYRM, which had been subject to what was effectively a Greek trade embargo since February 2004, were normalized, following the implementation of agreements on access to the Greek port of Thessaloniki and alterations to the FYRM’s flag.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1996-01-15">
               <chron-head>15 January 1996</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Andreas Papandreou resigned as Prime Minister. He was suc­ceeded by Konstantinos (Kostas) Simitis.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1996-01-31">
               <chron-head>31 January 1996</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Government complied with a US petition to withdraw Greek military vessels from the area surrounding Imia (Kardak), a small group of uninhabited islands in the Aegean Sea, following Turkish attempts to claim sovereignty.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1996-09-22">
               <chron-head>22 September 1996</chron-head>
               <chron-text>PASOK, led by Simitis, won a majority of seats in legislative elections. A Government, similar in composition to the previous one, was subsequently formed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1997-07-01" to-date="1997-07-31">
               <chron-head>July 1997</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Direct talks held in Madrid, Spain, between Simitis and the Turkish President, Süleyman Demirel, led Greece and Turkey to pledge not to use violence or the threat of violence to resolve bilateral disputes.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1999-08-17">
               <chron-head>17 August 1999</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following a severe earthquake in north-western Turkey, Greece provided financial and material as­sistance and renounced its veto on EU financial aid to that country. Turkey reciprocated in the following month when an earthquake in Athens left more than 60,000 people homeless.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2000-01-20">
               <chron-head>20 January 2000</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Georgios Papandreou became the first Greek Minister of Foreign Affairs to visit Turkey since 1962. The two countries agreed to hold direct talks on their military presence in the Aegean region and signed a number of eco­nomic co-operation agreements.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2000-04-09">
               <chron-head>9 April 2000</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In legislative elections, PASOK, again led by Simitis, retained a majority of parliamentary seats. A largely unchanged Government was formed three days later.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="2002-07-01" to-date="2002-07-31">
               <chron-head>July 2002</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Greek police made the first arrests of suspected members of the extremist left-wing Epanastatiki Organosi Dekaefta Noemvri (17N—November 17 Revolutionary Organization), which had been responsible for more than 20 political assassinations since 1975.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2003-03-03">
               <chron-head>3 March 2003</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The trial commenced of 19 suspected members of 17N. The two principal defendants, Alexandros Giotopoulos and Dimitiris Koufodinas, were accused of carrying out more than 1,000 criminal acts. In December four were acquitted owing to a lack of evidence. Giotopoulos, Koufodinas and four others were sentenced to life imprisonment, while eight defendants also received custodial sentences. One defendant received a suspended sentence.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-01-07">
               <chron-head>7 January 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Simitis announced his resignation as PASOK leader, and called a general election, declaring that an administration with a new mandate was necessary to address developments in Cyprus prior to that country’s admission to the EU, scheduled for May.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-03-07">
               <chron-head>7 March 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At the general election, Konstantinos (Kostas) Karamanlis’s ND secured 165 seats in Parliament, thereby removing PASOK, which retained 117 seats, from government. Karamanlis led a new administration.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-05-06">
               <chron-head>6 May 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Prime Minister of Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, began an official visit to Greece—the first by a Turkish premier in 16 years.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2005-02-08">
               <chron-head>8 February 2005</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Karolos Papoulias, a member of PASOK and a former Minister of Foreign Affairs, was elected unopposed as President by the Parliament.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2007-09-16">
               <chron-head>16 September 2007</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At elections to Parliament, ND was returned to power, securing 152 seats. PASOK won 102 seats, followed by the KKE (22), the Synaspismos Rizospastikis Aristeras (SYRIZA—Coalition of the Radical Left), with 14 seats and the Laikos Orthodoxos Synagermos (LAOS—Popular Orthodox Rally), with 10 seats. The rate of participation by the electorate was some 74.1%. Karamanlis subsequently established a new Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2009-06-07">
               <chron-head>7 June 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At elections to the European Parliament, PASOK and ND each secured eight seats, while the KKE 8.4% and LAOS each won two seats. The rate of participation was 52.6%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>4 October 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>PASOK secured victory in legislative elections, winning 43.9% of the votes cast and 160 seats, while ND received 33.5% and 91 seats. The KKE received 7.5% of the votes and 21 seats, LAOS 5.6% and 15 seats, and SYRIZA 4.6% and 13 seats. Karamanlis subsequently resigned as President of ND. He was succeeded by Antonis Samaras in November.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>7 October 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The appointment of a new PASOK Government, led by Georgios Papandreou (as Minister of Foreign Affairs as well as Prime Minister), was announced.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>24 December 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The adoption of an austerity budget by Parliament, following the revelation that the country’s budget deficit had been substantially understated by the previous administration, prompted a series of public protests and a national strike.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>3 February 2010</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament elected Papoulias to a further presidential term.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>24 February 2010</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Police used tear gas forcibly to disperse a group of rioting protesters, following a demonstration in Athens that had been attended by up to 25,000 people. Further general strikes and protests against the austerity plans took place throughout the first half of the year.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 March 2010</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament adopted a new programme of spending reductions and tax increases, precipitating a large protest by trade union members in Athens, which degenerated into violent clashes.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>2 May 2010</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The European Commission, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the Euro­pean Central Bank (ECB) reached agreement with Greece on a programme intended to stabilize the Greek economy, in accordance with which funding of €110,000m. would be provided over a period of three years, of which €80,000m. was to originate from the countries of the eurozone. Greece was required to undertake an extensive programme of austerity.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>7 September 2010</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Prime Minister Papandreou implemented a wide-ranging government reorganization.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>17 June 2011</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Papandreou again reorganized the Government. Georgios Papaconstantinou was replaced as Minister of Finance by Evangelos Venizelos, hitherto the Minister of National Defence, who also became a Deputy Chairman.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>29 June 2011</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament approved a new programme of austerity measures, amid a two-day national strike and violent protests outside the parliament building. On 2 July EU Ministers of Finance approved the disbursement of further lending, temporarily alleviating the threat of default.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 July 2011</chron-head>
               <chron-text>
        EU heads of state and of government agreed, in principle, the terms of a new programme of support for Greece, providing, 
        <i>inter alia</i>
        , for the disbursement of funds from the European Financial Stability Facility, lower rates of interest and extended repayment terms.
      </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>26-27 October 2011</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A summit of eurozone heads of state and of government resulted in a renegotiated fiscal plan for Greece (as the programme agreed in July was inadequate to prevent a Greek debt default). Papandreou initially committed to implementing the plan, which conditionally approved lending of €130,000m. for Greece. On 31 October, however, Papandreou announced that he intended to seek public endorsement of the fiscal proposals at a national referendum.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>6 November 2011</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Papandreou announced his resignation. Five days later a new, cross-party, interim administration was installed, led by Lucas Papademos, a former Governor of the Central Bank and a former Vice-President of the ECB.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>10 February 2012</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At the beginning of a widely observed 48-hour strike, LAOS withdrew its four representatives from the governing coalition and a PASOK deputy minister resigned, in protest against austerity measures.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>12 February 2012</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament approved new austerity measures, amid violent protests in Athens.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 February 2012</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Eurozone Ministers of Finance approved the €130,000m. rescue plan agreed in October, with additional preconditions, including an undertaking by Greece to accept a permanent EU economic monitoring mission.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 March 2012</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Greece completed a restructuring of its debt, thereby meeting another core condition for the second financial assistance package to be released. The agreement meant that most private creditors would accept losses of 53.5%, which would eventually reduce the country's public debt by €100,000m.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>6 May 2012</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In legislative elections no single party won an overall majority in Parliament. ND obtained 108 seats and SYRIZA secured 52 seats, effectively supplanting PASOK as the main left-wing party, which won 41 seats. After attempts to form a governing coalition were unsuccessful, fresh elections were scheduled, and an interim administration was installed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>17 June 2012</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In the new legislative elections, ND won 129 seats. SYRIZA secured 71 seats, and PASOK won 33 seats. Four smaller parties shared the remaining seats, among them the traditionalist right-wing Anexartitoi Ellines (ANEL—Independent Greeks), with 20 seats, and the extreme nationalist Chrysi Avgi (Golden Dawn), which obtained 18.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 June 2012</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Samaras, the President of ND, announced the formation of a new Government, comprising members of ND, as well as four independent politicians, nominated by PASOK and the small Dimokratiki Aristera (DIMAR—Democratic Left) party. Parliament approved the new Government on 8 July.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 November 2012</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Despite further violent protests and strike action, new stringent austerity measures, including an increase in the retirement age, were narrowly adopted by Parliament. One ND and six PASOK deputies were subsequently expelled from their respective parties owing to their failure to support the programme, which DIMAR opposed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>27 November 2012</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The EU-IMF-ECB `troika’ reached agreement on the disbursement of funds and on further concessions for the reduction of Greece’s debt. On 13 December the troika confirmed the agreed measures, and the delayed EU tranche of €34,300m. was subsequently disbursed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>24 June 2013</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following the withdrawal of DIMAR earlier in the month, Samaras announced a reorganized Government. PASOK leader Venizelos returned to the Government as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 July 2013</chron-head>
               <chron-text>International lenders agreed to the disbursement of €4,800m. in aid to Greece, after the Government agreed to implement further large-scale public sector dismissals demanded by the troika. Greece was to receive a further €2,000m. from national central banks and the ECB.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>17 September 2013</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A far-left activist was killed by a member of Chrysi Avgi in Athens. Police raided the headquarters of the party. At least 10 members of Chrysi Avgi were arrested in connection with the murder. Later in the month two senior police officers were obliged to resign owing to suspected connections to the organization.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>28 September 2013</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A total of 19 members of Chrysi Avgi, including its leader, Nikolaos Michaloliakos, and six parliamentary deputies, were arrested. Michaloliakos and three of the deputies were subsequently detained on charges of organizing a criminal group. In October Parliament voted to remove the parliamentary immunity from prosecution from the deputies.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>23 October 2013</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament voted in support of suspending state funding to any political party that was associated with criminal activity. Most legislative representatives of ND, PASOK, SYRIZA and DIMAR voted in favour of the measure, while the deputies of Chrysi Avgi left the parliamentary chamber shortly before the vote, and those of the KKE and ANEL abstained.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>25 December 2013</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The suspension of state funding (which was to have amounted to almost €900,000 annually) to Chrysi Avgi entered into effect.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2009-06-07">
               <chron-head>25 May 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At elections to the European Parliament SYRIZA secured six seats, ND obtained five seats, while Chrysi Avgi won three. A recently formed left-wing alliance led by PASOK, Elia—Dimokratiki Parataki (Olive Tree—Democratic Realignment) obtained two seats. A party recently formed by TV presenter Stavros Theodrakis, which supported the introduction of greater democracy in EU structures, To Potami (The River) also obtained two seats, as did the KKE, while ANEL won one seat. The rate of participation was 58.2%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>10 June 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A government reorganization was implemented. Yannis Stournaras resigned as Minister of Finance, to become Governor of the Bank of Greece. He was succeeded by Gikas Hardouvelis.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>31 December 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament was dissolved, after it failed to elect a new President on three successive occasions.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>25 January 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In the legislative elections, SYRIZA secured victory, with 36.3% of the votes cast and 149 seats (narrowly short of a majority), its support having increased substantially in response to its anti-austerity programme, while ND’s representation declined sharply, to 27.8% of the votes and 76 seats. Chrysi Avgi and To Potami each received 17 seats, the KKE obtained 15 seats, ANEL 13 seats. PASOK, experiencing a substantial loss of support, also obtained 13 seats. The leader of SYRIZA, Alexis Tsipras, reached a coalition agreement with ANEL (which, despite its ideological dissimilarity with SYRIZA, also opposed austerity measures). Tsipras’ Government, largely comprising SYRIZA members, was formed two days later. Yannis Dragasakis was appointed Deputy Prime Minister, while Yanis Varoufakis became Minister of Finance.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>18 February 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament elected Prokopis Pavlopoulos as President. He was inaugurated on 13 March.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>24 February 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Government presented a revised policy programme, which included commitments to combat tax evasion, corruption, and to implement labour reforms, although other pre-election pledges, such as the creation of jobs and a large increase in the minimum wage, were deferred. Greece was subsequently granted a four-month extension of its bailout programme.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>20 April 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The trial commenced of 69 Chrysi Avgi members, including Michaloliakos and former deputies, on charges of organizing and participating in a criminal group, and of weapons offences.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>28 June 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Greece imposed capital controls.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>30 June 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Greece defaulted on a delayed loan repayment to the IMF, becoming the first developed economy ever to do so, after the ECB refused to extend the existing bailout agreement. At midnight, without an agreement in place, Greece formally exited the bailout.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 July 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a referendum, some 61.3% of the participating electorate voted to reject the implementation of conditions demanded (and subsequently withdrawn) by the country’s creditors in return for the restructuring of Greece’s international debt. One day after the referendum Varoufakis announced his resignation. He was replaced as Minister of Finance by Euclid Tsakalotos. On the same day Samaras resigned as leader of ND. ND, PASOK and To Potami agreed to support the Government in new negotiations with the lenders.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 July 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Greece requested new lending under the EU’s European Stability Mechanism (ESM).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>12 July 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A euro summit, principally comprising heads of state and of government of the eurozone and the President of the European Commission, reached provisional agreement to commence negotiations on new lending, which would be subject to the implementation of additional austerity measures.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>15-16 July 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Amid reports that the IMF considered the EU’s proposed conditions for additional lending unfeasible for Greece, owing to its levels of public debt, and amid violent anti-austerity protests in Athens, the Parliament gave initial approval to a new EU deal.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>17 July 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Tsipras reorganized his cabinet, notably removing a minister opposed to Greek membership of the euro. Banks (closed since 28 June) reopened three days later, although capital controls remained in place.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>14 August 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The new, three-year bailout agreement, providing for up to €86,000m. in financial assistance, was approved by Parliament.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>20 August 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The ESM Board of Directors authorized the first tranche of lending, worth €26,000m. (of which €16,000m. was to be used for financing the budget and servicing debt, and the remainder was allocated to fund possible bank recapitalization). As many SYRIZA deputies refused to support the agreement, the Government resigned, and Tsipras scheduled parliamentary elections for the following month.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>20 September 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In the legislative elections, SYRIZA won 35.5% of the votes cast and 145 seats. ND secured 28.1% of the votes and 75 seats, Chrysi Avgi 7.0% and 18 seats, an alliance of PASOK and DIMAR 6.3% and 17 seats, and the KKE 5.6% and 15 seats. To Potami received 4.1% of the votes and 11 seats, and ANEL won 3.7% of the votes and 10 seats. A rate of voter participation of 56.6% was recorded.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>23 September 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Tsipras assumed the leadership of a renewed coalition Government, in which Tsakalotos retained the post of Minister of Finance.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>19 November 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament approved new austerity reforms. Two deputies of the ruling coalition who had voted against the measures were expelled, reducing the Government’s parliamentary majority.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>18 March 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>An EU agreement was signed with Turkey, providing for refugees and other migrants travelling to Greece to be returned to Turkey if they were considered not to be in immediate need of international protection (the EU was to accept one Syrian refugee from within Turkey for each migrant returned to that country, and to provide funding of some €6,000m.). The agreement began to be implemented in April.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 July 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament voted in favour of a government proposal to amend legislation on national elections, abandoning the existing award of an additional 50 seats to the first-placed party, instead adopting a system of proportional representation. (The law did not come into effect for the 2019 elections, as it did not receive approval by the required qualified majority.)</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>4 November 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Tsipras announced a government reorganization.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>18 May 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>One day after a national strike in protest against continuing austerity, Parliament approved new fiscal and structural reforms to taxes, pensions and the labour market, with the aim of securing approval of a further loan disbursement. Violent protests ensued.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>15 June 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following a meeting of eurozone Ministers of Finance, also attended by Managing Director of the IMF Christine Lagarde, agreement was reached in principle on the next stages of the bailout arrangement, alleviating the risk of default by Greece on repayments due in July, and providing for the participation of the IMF in the rescue programme, by means of a 14-month precautionary stand-by arrangement. In July the IMF confirmed its willingness to contribute €1,600m. to the EU-led bailout programme for Greece although, in accordance with the agreement reached in June, the IMF would contribute no funds until the country’s EU creditors agreed to increased debt relief, owing to concerns about the sustainability of Greece’s debt burden.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>7 December 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Erdoğan, now the President of Turkey, made an official visit to Greece, representing the first such visit by a Turkish head of state for over 60 years.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>15 January 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament approved measures demanded by Greece’s international creditors in exchange for further support. In addition to fiscal and energy market reforms, the legislation provided for a controversial labour amendment, which required unions to secure the support of 50% of their members before announcing a strike, prompting a protest by some 6,000 demonstrators in Athens.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>28 February 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Tsipras reorganized his cabinet. Dimitris Vitsas was appointed as Minister of Migration Policy.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>17 June 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Tsipras and his FYRM counterpart, Zoran Zaev, signed the so-called Prespa agreement, providing for the eventual renaming of the FYRM as the Republic of North Macedonia, as a result of which Greece would end its obstruction of the country’s applications for membership of the EU and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). The agreement required parliamentary approval in both countries, and was also subject to endorsement by referendum in the FYRM. The proposal met with substantial opposition in Greece, and on 16 June the parliamentary faction of ND unsuccessfully brought a motion of no confidence against Tsipras. Demonstrations against the proposed name (which some regarded as irredentist) also took place in Athens, attended by around 5,000 protesters.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>22 June 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Eurozone Ministers of Finance reached agreement on debt relief for Greece, extending repayment terms by 10 years on bailout lending totalling almost €100,000m., as the country made preparations for its formal departure from the financial rescue programme. Under the terms of the debt relief accord, Greece agreed to maintain a primary budget surplus (excluding debt repayments), of 3.5% of GDP until 2022, with a long-term target of 2.2%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>27 July 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At an emergency meeting of the Government Tsipras announced that he considered himself `politically responsible’ for the consequences of wildfires near Athens, which resulted in over 90 deaths. In early August the Minister of Civil Protection resigned.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>20 August 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Greece formally exited the third bailout programme, following the disbursement of a final tranche of ESM financial assistance for Greece, amounting to €15,000m., on 6 August.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>27 August 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A government reorganization took place, in which, however, most principal ministers were retained. Michalis Kalogirou, hitherto the Secretary-General of the Government, was appointed Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>17 October 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Nikos Kotzias resigned the foreign affairs portfolio, following disagreements with Minister of National Defence and ANEL leader Panos Kammenos, who strenuously opposed the Prespa agreement; Tsipras subsequently assumed the role in an acting capacity</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>14 January 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Adm. Evangelos Apostolakis, hitherto chief of the Hellenic National Defence General Staff, was sworn in as Minister of National Defence, replacing ANEL leader Panos Kammenos who had resigned the previous day, after announcing his party’s withdrawal from the coalition Government. Also on 14 January Kammenos expelled ANEL Minister of Tourism Elena Kountoura, who had pledged her support for the Government, from ANEL’s parliamentary group.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>20 January 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A rally attended by an estimated 60,000 people in opposition to the agreement with the FYRM took place in Athens, with clashes between demonstrators and police.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>25 January 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>With another protest taking place in Athens, Parliament endorsed the Prespa agreement, with 153 votes cast in favour and 146 against (dissident ANEL members supported SYRIZA in the vote, while ND refused to support the agreement). It was signed into law shortly afterwards.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 February 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Greece was the first NATO member state to ratify the FYRM’s NATO accession protocol, allowing the name change as the Republic of North Macedonia to enter into force officially four days later.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 April 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Eurozone Ministers of Finance approved the release of an initial payment of post-bailout debt relief funding, amounting to €970m., after Parliament adopted a new, more stringent framework for the protection of primary residences from foreclosure; the payment had been due in early March.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>26 May 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>ND secured eight seats in the European Parliament, while SYRIZA won six seats. A PASOK-led coalition, Kinima Allagis (Movement for Change), won two seats, as did the KKE and Chrysi Avgi. The populist Elliniki Lisi (Greek Solution) won one seat. The rate of participation was 58.7%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>2 June 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The second round of voting in local and regional elections took place, in which opposition candidates performed strongly. ND candidate Kostas Bakoyannis was elected Mayor of Athens, defeating the candidate supported by SYRIZA, Nasos Iliopoulos.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>10 June 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following the reduced support for SYRIZA in both the regional and local elections and the elections to the European Parliament, Tsipras announced his resignation and scheduled an early general election.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>7 July 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Early legislative elections took place, as scheduled, in which ND emerged as the leading party, securing a majority in the legislature, with 39.9% of the votes cast and 158 seats. SYRIZA, which attracted 31.5% of the votes and won 86 seats, was therefore removed from power. Kinima Allagis was third-placed, with 8.1% of the votes and 22 seats, followed by the KKE, with 5.3% of the votes and 10 seats. Two recently formed parties also obtained seats. Elliniki Lisi won 3.7% of the votes and 10 seats and the left-wingMetopo Evropaikis Realistikis Anypakois (MeRA25—European Realistic Disobedience Front), led by Varoufakis, won 3.4% of the votes and nine seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 July 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>ND leader Kyriakos Mitsotakis was sworn in as Prime Minister. He announced the composition of his new Government on the same day. The former President of the Council of State (the country’s highest judicial organ) and interim Prime Minister for a period of one month in 2012, Panagiotis Pikrammenos, was appointed as Deputy Prime Minister. Nikos Dendias was appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Christos Staikouras became Minister of Finance. The Government was sworn in on 9 July.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>24 October 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Economic reforms presented by Mitsotakis were approved by Parliament, despite union-led protests and industrial action, which had taken place from late September.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>1 January 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The leaders of Greece, Cyprus and Israel signed a tripartite agreement for the construction of a natural gas pipeline, the Eastern Mediterranean pipeline (EastMed).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>15 January 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following a surge in migrant arrivals, Mitsotakis re-established a Ministry of Migration and Asylum; Panagiotis (`Notis’) Mitarakis was appointed to the post.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>22 January 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliamentarians elected Katerina Sakellaropoulou, hitherto the President of the Council of State, as the country’s President, after a single round of voting.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>29 February 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Turkish Government announced that it would not prevent migrants from crossing its borders into Europe (following an upsurge in fighting in the Syrian Arab Republic, in which more than 30 Turkish soldiers were killed). Greek border guards subsequently fired tear gas to repel large numbers of migrants attempting to cross the border near the north-eastern town of Kastanies and the authorities announced the suspension of asylum applications.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>10 March 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In response to an escalation in cases of COVID-19, which was first confirmed in Greece on 26 February, educational institutions were closed; six days later commercial businesses were closed, and a quarantine was announced for those arriving into the country. From 23 March all non-essential travel and movement was prohibited.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 March 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Sakellaropoulou was inaugurated as President.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>4 May 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>National lockdown measures imposed in response to COVID-19 began to be eased; primary schools and kindergartens reopened on 1 June.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 June 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Minister of Foreign Affairs Dendias and his Italian counterpart signed an agreement establishing an exclusive economic zone (EEZ) between Greece and Italy.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 July 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament approved legislation under which demonstrations were to be restricted, or banned if they were considered by the authorities to threaten public safety; a rally by around 10,000 people was staged outside the parliamentary building to protest against the measures, which were criticized by human rights groups, and there were clashes with police.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 July 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Turkey announced plans to conduct hydrocarbons exploration activities near the Greek island of Kastellorizo, just off the coast of Turkey, prompting a formal protest from Greece.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>6 August 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Ministers of Foreign Affairs of Greece and Egypt signed an agreement in the Egyptian capital, Cairo, creating an EEZ for hydrocarbons drilling rights between the two countries (in accordance with the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea—UNCLOS); Dendias’s claim that the agreement nullified a 2019 accord between Turkey and Libya (reached in violation of the UNCLOS) was rejected by Turkey and Libya.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>12 August 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A collision between Greek and Turkish frigates took place in the contested Mediterranean waters after Greece deployed navy vessels, increasing tensions.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8-9 September 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Fire destroyed Europe’s largest refugee camp, on Lesbos. Designed to accommodate 3,000 people, it had been home to around 13,000 refugees, living in poor conditions. In mid-June 2021 four Afghan men were convicted of arson and sentenced to 10 years’ imprisonment.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>7 October 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Athens Court of Appeal ruled that the leadership of Chrysi Avgi was guilty of running a criminal organization, while others were found guilty of various charges linked to Chrysi Avgi, including involvement in criminal violence. Chrysi Avgi leader Michaloliakos and several prominent former parliamentary deputies, on trial since 2015, were subsequently sentenced to 13 years’ imprisonment; 12 other former deputies were sentenced to prison terms of between five and 10 years, while a supporter of Chrysi Avgi was sentenced to life imprisonment for murder in 2013.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>7 November 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In response to increasing numbers of cases of COVID-19, new lockdown measures were introduced in an attempt to contain the pandemic. A vaccination programme commenced on 27 December.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>10 December 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>An EU summit meeting resulted in an agreement by EU leaders to impose targeted sanctions against Turkey for its activities in the Eastern Mediterranean.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>4 January 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Mitsotakis effected a minor government reorganization, as part of which Makis Voridis was appointed as the new Minister of the Interior.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>25 January 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text> Representatives from Greece and Turkey met in İstanbul, Turkey, for exploratory talks to address the maritime disputes (the first such meeting since regular discussions had been suspended in 2016). However, in late February the Turkish Government accused Greece of deploying fighter jets to harass its research vessel.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>11 February 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Greece hosted a so-called Friendship Forum in Athens, attended by ministers responsible for foreign affairs from Egypt, Cyprus and the Gulf states of Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (and from France, remotely), with the stated aim of strengthening regional co-operation and security.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>31 August 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following a series of wildfires in July and August, Mitsotakis reorganized his cabinet. Panagiotis (Takis) Theodorikakos, the former Minister of the Interior, replaced Minister of Citizen Protection Michalis Chrysochoidis. Vassilis Kikilias assumed the tourism portfolio, replacing Theocharis (Harry) Theocharides, and Kikilias was succeeded as Minister of Health by Athanasios Plevris. Mitsotakis also created a new Ministry of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, led by former Cypriot MEP Christos Stylianides.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 March 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following the Russian invasion of Ukraine on 24 February, Mitsotakis and Erdoğan met in İstanbul, and agreed to attempt to increase co-operation and foster improved relations. However, tensions subsequently re-emerged.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>17 May 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Mitsotakis addressed a joint session of the US Congress, in the first such address by a Greek leader. Without making overt reference to Turkey, he urged Congress against the sale of military equipment to that country, warning that such action could further destabilize the Eastern Mediterranean. Erdoğan consequently withdrew Turkey from further bilateral talks with Greece.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 August 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Amid a scandal over illicit surveillance that had led to the resignation of the Director of the National Intelligence Service (NIS), Mitsotakis made a televised statement denying knowledge of the illicit surveillance of PASOK-KINAL leader Nikos Androulakis; the NIS had been brought under the direct control of Mitsotakis after he took office in 2019.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>27 January 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A parliamentary motion of no confidence in Mitsotakis’ Government, brought by SYRIZA, was defeated, with 143 votes in favour and with 156 votes against.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>28 February 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A passenger train travelling from Athens to Thessaloniki collided with a freight train north of Larissa, killing 57 people and injuring more than 80. The Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Kostas Karamanlis (a nephew of the former Prime Minister), resigned on 1 March, together with the head of the railway operating company.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>22 April 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>President Sakellaropoulou approved a request by Mitsotakis to dissolve Parliament and legislative elections were scheduled for 21 May.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 May 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In the parliamentary elections, ND secured 40.8% of the votes cast (and improved its performance compared with 2019, when it received 39.9%). However, under amendments to electoral law passed in 2016, and which had entered into effect for the first time, ND had failed to attract sufficient support to enable it to form a majority government. SYRIZA secured 20.1% of the votes, while PASOK-KINAL was third-placed, with 11.5% of the votes. A caretaker Government took office on 26 May, and new elections were scheduled for 25 June.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>14 June 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A fishing vessel bound for Italy and carrying up to 750 irregular migrants, many of them Pakistani nationals, sank in international waters some 80&#160;km from the Greek coast. Over 100 people were rescued, but there were 82 confirmed deaths and over 500 people remained missing, and were presumed to have drowned. In late July the EU announced that it was to carry out an investigation into the conduct of Frontex, the EU’s border control and coastguard agency, on the day of the sinking, amid conflicting reports as to whether the Greek authorities had responded appropriately to the crisis.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>25 June 2023 </chron-head>
               <chron-text>
        New legislative elections took place. ND secured 40.6% of the votes cast and 158 seats, under a reinstated system that awarded additional seats to the winning party. SYRIZA secured 17.8% of the votes and 4
        
        7 seats, while PASOK-KINAL won 11.8% of the votes and 32 seats. Mitsotakis was again nominated as Prime Minister, and his new Government was sworn in on 27 June.
      </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>19 July 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Amid a heatwave affecting large parts of Europe, wildfires broke out at several mainland and island locations in Greece. Rhodes was reported to be the most severely affected, with the declaration of a state of emergency and large-scale evacuation efforts continuing for days, during the country’s main tourist season.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
     </chron-list>
</chronology>