<?xml version="1.0"?>
<chronology id="SI.CHRON" id-root="si" original-filename="unknown" region="CASEE" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>Chronology</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Slovenia</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Chronology</alt-heading>
     <chron-list>
          <chron-entry from-date="-0168-01-01" to-date="-0168-12-31">
               <chron-head>
        168 
        <sc>bce</sc>
               </chron-head>
               <chron-text>Illyria (in the north of which lay the territory which is now Slovenia) was annexed by the Roman Empire.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="0395-01-01" to-date="0395-12-31">
               <chron-head>
         395 
        <sc>ce</sc>
               </chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following a division of the administration of the Roman Empire, Illyria was ruled by the Eastern Roman (Byzantine’) Emperor in Constantinople (İstanbul, Turkey—now known as Türkiye). Over the following century Southern Slav peoples began to move into Illyria and the Balkans.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="0600-01-01" to-date="0699-12-31">
               <chron-head>7th century</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Western Slavic tribes associated themselves with the Slavic Duchy of Carinthia (based in modern Austria), while Western Christian missionaries from Salzburg were active among these ancestors of the Slovenes, introducing the Latin script and a Western cultural orientation.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="0812-01-01" to-date="0812-12-31">
               <chron-head>812</chron-head>
               <chron-text>By the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle (Aachen, now in Germany), the Byzantine Emperor, Michael I, acknowledged the Frankish ruler, Charles (the Great’—Charlemagne), as Emperor in the West; German influence over the Slovene-inhabited areas of Carinthia and Carniola was thus established, although Byzantine and Venetian influence remained on the Istrian coast.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="0869-01-01" to-date="0874-12-31">
               <chron-head>869-74</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Kocelj briefly established a Slovene principality in Lower Pannonia (southern Hungary).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1335-01-01" to-date="1335-12-31">
               <chron-head>1335</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Carniola and Carinthia became hereditary possessions of the Austrian House of Habsburg, within the Holy Roman Empire.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1490-01-01" to-date="1490-12-31">
               <chron-head>1490</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Death of the Hungarian King, Matthias I Corvinus, who had, temporarily, conquered the Habsburg lands.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1551-01-01" to-date="1551-12-31">
               <chron-head>1551</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A minister of the (Calvinist) Church of Carniola, Primož Trubar, published a catechism, the first book in the Slovene language.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1599-01-01" to-date="1599-12-31">
               <chron-head>1599</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Counter-Reformation secured the Slovenes for Roman Catholicism by the final extinction of the Church of Carniola.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1815-01-01" to-date="1815-12-31">
               <chron-head>1815</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Congress of Vienna confirmed Austrian rule over Istria.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1848-01-01" to-date="1848-12-31">
               <chron-head>1848</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The first political manifesto advocating a united Slovenia was published.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1867-01-01" to-date="1867-12-31">
               <chron-head>1867</chron-head>
               <chron-text>
        The 
        <i>Ausgleich</i>
        , or Compromise, created, in the Habsburg territories, the `dual monarchy’ of Austria-Hungary; Slo­venes lived in four of the 15 Austrian crownlands: Carniola (where they formed a majority); Carinthia; Styria; and the Coastal Lands around Trst (Trieste).
      </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1914-06-28">
               <chron-head>28 June 1914</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The heir to the Habsburg throne, Archduke Francis Ferdinand, and his wife were assassinated in Sara­jevo (Bosnia and Herzegovina), precipitating the First World War.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1917-07-01" to-date="1917-07-31">
               <chron-head>July 1917</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Prominent Slovenes, together with other Southern Slavs (Yugoslavs), declared their intention to form a unitary state, under the Serbian monarchy.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1918-10-29">
               <chron-head>29 October 1918</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following the defeat and dissolution of the Danubian Dual Monarchy, the Yugoslav peoples separated from the Austro-Hungarian system of states. On 1 December the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, which united the former Habsburg lands with Serbia and Montenegro was proclaimed. (Following the imposition of a royal dictatorship, the country was renamed Yugoslavia in 1929.)</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1941-04-01" to-date="1941-04-30">
               <chron-head>April 1941</chron-head>
               <chron-text>German and Italian forces invaded Yugoslavia, annexing respectively Lower Styria and parts of Carinthia, and Ljubljana and Istria, precipitating the formation of the Osvobodilna Fronta (Liberation Front), which became the Slovene wing of the Yugoslav Communist-led Partisan movement.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1945-11-29">
               <chron-head>29 November 1945</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A Provisional Assembly proclaimed the Federative People’s Republic of Yugoslavia, elections having taken place after fighting ended in Carinthia and Styria in May. In 1946 a Yugoslav Constitution, establishing a federation of six republics (including Slovenia) and two autonomous regions, was adopted.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1952-11-01" to-date="1952-11-30">
               <chron-head>November 1952</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Communist Party was renamed the League of Communists of Yugoslavia (SKJ) and several liberal reforms were adopted. Two months later Josip Broz (Tito) assumed the new position of President of Yugoslavia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1954-01-01" to-date="1954-12-31">
               <chron-head>1954</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Istria was partitioned between Italy (which gained Trieste) and Yugoslavia (principally Slovenia, which thereby gained a coastline, and also Croatia).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1963-04-01" to-date="1963-04-30">
               <chron-head>April 1963</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The country was renamed the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1971-01-01" to-date="1971-12-31">
               <chron-head>1971</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following the granting of the rights of autonomy to the federal units, a collective State Presidency was established, with Tito (who was declared President for life in 1974) as its head.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1980-05-04">
               <chron-head>4 May 1980</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Tito died; his responsibilities were transferred to the collective State Presidency and to the SKJ Presidium.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1989-09-27">
               <chron-head>27 September 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Slovenian Assembly reaffirmed the sovereignty of the republic and declared its right to secede. In December Serbian enterprises were instructed to sever all links with Slovenia, which retaliated by implementing reciprocal measures. In January 1990 the SKJ voted to abolish its leading role in society; none the less, the Zveza Komunistov Slovenije (ZKS—League of Communists of Slovenia) suspended its links with the SKJ, and in February renamed itself the Stranka Demokraticne Prenove—SDP—Party of Democratic Reform.)</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1990-03-08">
               <chron-head>8 March 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Slovenian Assembly renamed the territory the Republic of Slovenia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1990-04-01" to-date="1990-04-30">
               <chron-head>April 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The opposition Demokratična Opozicija Slovenije (DEMOS—Democratic Opposition of Slovenia) coalition won the direct multi-party elections to the Slovenian Assembly. Two weeks later Milan Kučan of the SDP was elected republican President. In May Lojze Peterle, leader of the Slovenski Krščanski Demokrati (SKD—Slovenian Christian Democrats), part of DEMOS, became Prime Minister.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1990-07-02">
               <chron-head>2 July 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly proclaimed the full sovereignty of Slovenia. On 28 September the Assembly asserted its jurisdiction over the Slovenian Territorial Defence Force; the move was denounced by the federal authorities.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1990-12-23">
               <chron-head>23 December 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A referendum held in Slovenia voted in favour of secession. On 20 February 1991 the Slovenian Assembly adopted a resolution initiating its process of dissociation’ from Yugoslavia. With the failure of various attempts to negotiate a new federation, on 8 May Slovenia announced that it would secede from Yugoslavia by 26 June. It subsequently formed a new territorial army.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-06-25">
               <chron-head>25 June 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Slovenian and Croatian Assemblies declared the independence and sovereignty of their respective republics, formally beginning dissociation from Yugoslavia. Two days later the Yugoslav People’s Army (JNA). began military operations in Slo­venia. Fighting continued intermittently for several weeks; 79 people were killed in the fighting in Slovenia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1991-07-07" to-date="1991-07-08">
               <chron-head>7-8 July 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The European Community (EC, now European Union—EU) mediated a ceasefire in the former Yugoslavia and a three-month moratorium on further implementation of the Slovenian and Croatian declarations of dissociation. The last JNA troops left Slovenia on 26 October.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-12-23">
               <chron-head>23 December 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Slovenian Constitution was enacted, providing for a bicameral legislature. In the same month the DEMOS coalition was dissolved.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1992-01-15">
               <chron-head>15 January 1992</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The EC officially extended recognition to Slovenia; Germany had done so in the previous month. The USA recognized the country in April, and on 22 May Slovenia was admitted to the United Nations (UN).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1992-05-01" to-date="1992-05-31">
               <chron-head>May 1992</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Peterle resigned as Prime Minister. His successor was Janez Drnovšek, leader of the Liberalno Demokratska Stranka (LDS—Liberal Democratic Party) and a former President of the Yugoslav State Presidency.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1992-12-06">
               <chron-head>6 December 1992</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Presidential and parliamentary elections were held. Kučan was re-elected President. The renamed LDS (Liberalna Demokracija Slovenije—Liberal Democracy of Slovenia) was the most successful party in elections to the new Državni Zbor (National Assembly), the lower legislative chamber, winning 22 of the 90 seats. Drnovšek formed a coalition Government composed mainly of members of LDS, the SKD and the Združena Lista (United List) alliance (subsequently known as the Združena Lista Socialnih Demokratov—ZLSD—United List of Social Demo­crats). Also in December an electoral college voted for members of the new upper chamber, the Državni Svet (National Council).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1993-07-23">
               <chron-head>23 July 1993</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Arms illegally destined for Bosnia and Herze­govina were discovered at Maribor airport; several leading Slo­venian politicians were implicated in the scandal, including the Minister of Defence, Janez Janša, the leader of the Socialdemokratska Stranka Slovenije (SDSS—Social Democratic Party of Slovenia).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1994-04-01" to-date="1994-04-30">
               <chron-head>April 1994</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The SDSS left the ruling coalition in protest at the dismissal from the Government of Janša.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1995-11-01" to-date="1995-11-30">
               <chron-head>November 1995</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Slovenia recognized the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (comprising Serbia and Montenegro), following the end of military conflict in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1996-01-26">
               <chron-head>26 January 1996</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The ZLSD withdrew from the ruling coalition.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1996-11-10">
               <chron-head>10 November 1996</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Legislative elections were held: LDS obtained 25 seats in the National Assembly: it subsequently increased its parliamentary bloc to 45, with the support of the ZLSD, the Demokratična Stranka Upokojencev Slovenije (DeSUS—Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia), the Slovenska Nacionalna Stranka (SNS—Slovenian National Party) and the two deputies of the Hungarian and Italian minorities. An electoral alliance of the Slovenska Ljudska stranka (SLS—Slovenian People’s Party), the SDSS and the SKD, also obtained 45 seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1997-01-09">
               <chron-head>9 January 1997</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The new National Assembly re-elected Drnovšek to the premiership; a coalition Government was approved in February.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1997-11-23">
               <chron-head>23 November 1997</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Kučan was elected to a further presidential term.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2000-04-03">
               <chron-head>3 April 2000</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following the announcement that nine ministers belonging to the SLS were to resign (after which the SKD was to be merged into the SLS), Drnovšek failed to form a new government and was obliged to resign.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2000-05-03">
               <chron-head>3 May 2000</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Andrej Bajuk, the nominee of an alliance formed by the SLS and the SDSS, won endorsement as premier in the National Assembly. His Government was approved on 7 June.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2000-08-04">
               <chron-head>4 August 2000</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Bajuk, having left the SLS, was elected Chairman of Nova Slovenija-Krščanska Demokrati (N.Si—New Slovenia-Christian Democrats).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2000-10-15">
               <chron-head>15 October 2000</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In the general election, LDS won 34 National Assembly seats, ahead of the SDSS, with 14, the ZLSD, with 11, the SLS, with nine, and N.Si, with eight.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2000-12-01">
               <chron-head>1 December 2000</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The National Assembly endorsed the appointment of a new Government, led by Drnovšek and supported by LDS, the ZLSD, the SLS and DeSUS.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2000-12-09">
               <chron-head>9 December 2000</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Diplomatic relations were established with Yugoslavia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2002-12-01">
               <chron-head>1 December 2002</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Drnovšek was elected President.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2002-12-19">
               <chron-head>19 December 2002</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The National Assembly approved the composition of a new Government, headed by Anton Rop of LDS.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-03-29">
               <chron-head>29 March 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Slovenia joined the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-04-19">
               <chron-head>19 April 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Government was reorganized, after the SLS withdrew from the ruling coalition.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-05-01">
               <chron-head>1 May 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Slovenia was admitted to the EU.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-10-04">
               <chron-head>3 October 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At legislative elections, the Slovenska Demokratska Stranka (SDS—Slovenian Democratic Party—as the SDSS had been renamed) secured 29 seats in the National Assembly, defeating the ruling LDS, with 23 seats. The SDS leader, Janša, was subsequently appointed Prime Minister. He formed a coalition administration, supported by the SDS, the SLS, N.Si and DeSUS.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2007-01-01">
               <chron-head>1 January 2007</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Slovenia adopted the euro, the first former socialist state to do so.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2007-11-11">
               <chron-head>21 October and 11 November 2007</chron-head>
               <chron-text>An independent law professor, Danilo Türk was elected President, defeating Peterle in the run-off; he took office on 22 December. </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 September 2008</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At elections to the National Assembly, the Socialni Demokrati (SD—Social Democrats—as the ZLSD had been renamed) secured 29 seats, ahead of the SDP, with 28. Zares—Nova Politika (Zares—For Real—New Politics), a party established in 2007 by former LDS members, received nine, DeSUS seven. The SNS, an SLS-led alliance and LDS each won five seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 November 2008</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A coalition Government led by Borut Pahor of the SD, and also supported by Zares, DeSUS and LDS, took office.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>7 June 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In elections to the European Parliament, the SDP and SD each secured two representatives, while N.Si, LDS and Zares each obtained one. Only 28.3% of the electorate participated.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>4 November 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Slovenia and Croatia signed an agreement permitting international arbitrators to delineate their common border, with the question of Slovenian access to the open seas a matter of particular concern. The legislature ratified the agreement in April 2010; it was endorsed by plebiscite in June.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>20 September 2011</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Government was defeated in a confidence motion in the National Assembly connected to a vote on austerity measures.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>4 December 2011</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At elections to the National Assembly, a recently formed party led by businessman and the erstwhile Mayor of Ljubljana Zoran Janković, Pozitivna Slovenija (PS—Positive Slovenia), secured 28 seats, ahead of the SDP, with 26, the SD, with 10, the Državljanska Lista Gregorja Viranta (DLGV—Gregor Virant’s Civic List), with eight, DeSUS, with six, the SLS, with six, and N.Si, with four.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>28 January 2012</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The National Assembly voted to nominate Janša as Prime Minister, despite the objection of Türk. His coalition Government, comprising members of the SDP, DeSUS, the SLS, the DLGV and N.Si, was installed on 10 February.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>11 November and 2 December 2012</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Pahor was elected President, defeating Türk in the run-off poll. The relatively low rate of participation (48.4% in the first round, and 42.4% in the second) was attributed to widespread public dissatisfaction with austerity measures.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>17 January 2013</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Alenka Bratušek, a former finance ministry official, was elected leader of PS, after Janković resigned his party posts in response to accusations of corruption.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>23 January 2013</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Državljanska Lista (DL—Civic List—as the DLGV had been restyled) withdrew from the ruling coalition, in protest at Janša’s refusal to resign in response to the publication of accusations of corruption against him. The Government lost its majority in the National Assembly, and was defeated in a no confidence motion on 27 January.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>20 March 2013</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The National Assembly endorsed a new coalition administration led by Bratušek, comprising members of PS, the SD, the DL and DeSUS. The Government subsequently announced an economic reform programme, including a campaign of privatization.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 June 2013</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Janša was convicted of having sought bribes in connection with defence contracts, and was sentenced to two years in prison.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 May 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Bratušek submitted her resignation as Prime Minister, nine days after losing a vote for the leadership of PS to Janković. She remained in office in an acting capacity, forming a new political organization, the Zavezništvo Alenke Bratušek (ZAB—Alliance of Alenka Bratušek).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2009-06-07">
               <chron-head>25 May 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At elections to the European Parliament, the SDS secured three seats, a coalition of N.Si and the SLS won two. A recently formed centre-left party, Verjamem (I Believe), DeSUS and the SD each won one seat. The rate of participation was 24.6%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 July 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Elections were held to the National Assembly. The recently formed Stranka Mira Cerarja (SMC—Party of Miro Cerar), which had campaigned on a policy of reducing the national budgetary deficit, was first, with 34.6% of the votes cast and 36 seats. The SDS was second, with 21 seats, while DeSUS won 10 seats. Both the Združena Levica (United Left) coalition and the SD obtained six seats, N.Si secured five seats, and the ZAB won four seats. PS failed to obtain representation.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>18 September 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A coalition Government led by the SMC (which subsequently renamed itself as the Stranka Modernega Centra—Party of the Modern Centre) and also including the SD and DeSUS, took office, with Cerar as Prime Minister.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>23 April 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Constitutional Court confirmed that it was repealing the guilty verdict against Janša, ordering a retrial.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>17 October 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>After Hungary closed its border with Croatia, Croatia began to direct irregular migrants, many of whom were fleeing conflicts in Afghanistan, Iraq or the Syrian Arab Republic, into Slovenia; according to official figures, within five days 50,400 immigrants had entered Slovenia illegally, prompting a humanitarian crisis and leading the Government to request assistance from the EU. Slovenia’s erection of a razor wire fence on its border with Croatia in December, to prevent further illegal entry, led Croatia to submit a complaint against Slovenia to the European Commission.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>26 January 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Despite appeals from the Council of Europe, the National Assembly adopted legislative amendments enabling the authorities, with the approval of a parliamentary majority, to seal the country’s borders to illegal immigrants for a limited period, and to expel those entering Slovenia without assessing their asylum claims, citing the ensuing threats to public order and security.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>29 June 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) in The Hague, Netherlands, ruled that a `corridor’ of some 10 nautical miles, together with around 75% of the Bay of Piran, should be awarded to Slovenia, providing it with unhindered access to international waters. Croatia rejected the ruling.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>22 October and 12 November 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In the first round of a presidential election contested by nine candidates, the incumbent, Pahor, received 47.2% of the votes. Second-placed was former satirist Marjan Šarec, with 24.8%. In the run-off poll Pahor was re-elected to a second term, with 53.1%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>14 March 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Prime Minister Cerar announced his intention to resign, after the Supreme Court annulled the results of a referendum held in September, which had endorsed the planned construction of a new railway line between the port of Koper and near the Italian border, stating that the ruling would slow the development of the country’s infrastructure. The National Assembly formally accepted Cerar’s resignation on 20 March; his Government remained in place pending legislative elections.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 May 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The referendum on the railways project was repeated. The results indicated that 50.1% of votes had been cast in opposition to the proposal, but as the rate of electoral participation was below the required minimum of 20% the plebiscite was ruled invalid.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>3 June 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In legislative elections the SDS was first-placed, securing 24.9% of the votes cast and 25 seats. Šarec’s Lista Marjana Šarča (LMŠ—List of Marjan Šarec), which had campaigned on an anti-corruption platform, was second, with 12.6% of the votes and 13 seats. The SD and the SMC each received 10 seats. The Levica (Left) alliance won nine seats, N.Si seven. The Stranka Alenke Bratušek (SAB—Party of Alenka Bratušek), as the ZAB had been restyled, and DeSUS both five seats. The rate of participation was 52.6%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 September 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A minority Government led by Šarec, and comprising members of the LMŠ, the SD, the SMC, the SAB and DeSUS, received parliamentary approval; the Government was also to receive the support of Levica. Cerar became Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Karl Erjavec, the leader of DeSUS, was appointed Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence. Andrej Bertoncelj of the LMŠ became Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>26 May 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Elections to the European Parliament took place. A coalition of the SDS and the SLS won 26.3% of the votes and three seats. The SD, with 18.7%, and the LMŠ, with 15.4%, each won two seats, and N.Si won 11.1% of the votes and one seat. Turnout was recorded at 28.9%, compared with an EU average of 50.6%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>6 November 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Shortly before a vote on the state budget, Levica withdrew its informal support for the Government, after coalition deputies failed to approve its proposal for the abolition of supplementary health insurance.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>27 January 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Šarec announced his resignation as Prime Minister, shortly after Bertoncelj had also resigned from the Government, as the dispute over health care reforms intensified.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>26 February 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Rejecting a request by Šarec for new elections, President Pahor nominated Janša, who enjoyed the support of a coalition of his SDS and the SMC, N.Si and DeSUS, as Prime Minister. The National Assembly confirmed his appointment on 3 March.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>4 March 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The first confirmed case of COVID-19 in Slovenia was reported. The outgoing Government began to introduce containment measures on 7 March, and restrictions on movement were imposed from 20 March.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 March 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The National Assembly approved the formation of Janša’s new Government. Počivalšek remained as Minister of Economic Development and Technology, also becoming a Deputy Prime Minister, N.Si leader Matej Tonin was appointed Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, and the new leader of DeSUS, Aleksandra Pivec, remained Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, also becoming a deputy premier. SDS members Anže Logar and Aleš Hojs were appointed, respectively, as Minister of Foreign Affairs and Minister of the Interior.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>18 April 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Some of the restrictions on movement imposed in the previous month began to be relaxed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 August 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo made an official visit to Slovenia (the first by a US Secretary of State since 1997). In December a Strategic Dialogue between the USA and Slovenia was officially launched.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 October 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Pivec resigned from the Government, following allegations of corruption, and before the National Assembly was to vote on her dismissal. She was succeeded as Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food by Jože Podgoršek, like Pivec (who had resigned from the party leadership in the previous month) a representative of DeSUS.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>22 October 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Amid a resurgence in cases of COVID-19, a night curfew and restrictions on movement and public gatherings were reintroduced under a state of emergency. A COVID-19 vaccination programme began in late December.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>17 December 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>DeSUS (again led by Erjavec) announced its withdrawal from the coalition Government in protest against what it termed Janša’s authoritarian policies. DeSUS member Tomaž Gantar consequently resigned as Minister of Health. Podgoršek chose to remain in his ministerial post, and was consequently expelled from the party.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>16 February 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Janša’s Government survived a parliamentary motion of no confidence initiated by five opposition parties, which had accused him of exploiting the health crisis to undermine the rule of law and which supported the candidacy of Erjavec for Prime Minister-designate. Later that month the National Assembly approved the appointment of Janez Poklukar as Minister of Health.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>10 March 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following continued divisions within DeSUS, Erjavec announced his resignation as leader and his departure from the party. In June Ljubo Jasnič was elected as the new party leader.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>27 May 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Lilijana Kozlovič of the SMC resigned as Minister of Justice, following a disagreement with Janša over the latter’s policy of obstructing Slovenia’s appointments to the EU’s European Public Prosecutor’s Office.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>15 June 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Government ended the state of emergency declared in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. On the same day an independent, Marjan Dikaučič, was appointed Minister of Justice.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>6 November 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>New temporary restrictions were introduced to help reduce the spread of COVID-19. Most COVID-19 restrictions were abolished from 21 February 2022.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>24 April 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In legislative elections, the centre-left Gibanje Svoboda (GS—Freedom Movement) unexpectedly secured victory, with 34.5% of the votes cast and 41 seats. Janša’s SDS received 23.5% of the votes and 27 seats, N.Si 6.9% and eight seats, the SD 6.7% and seven seats, and Levica 4.5% and five seats. Turnout was 71.0% (the highest level recorded since 2000). </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>24 May 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A court in Celje upheld a three-month suspended prison sentence on Janša, who had been found guilty of defamation against two female journalists in 2016.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>1 June 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The National Assembly approved a new Government, led by Golob, and comprising the GS, the SD and Levica. Tanja Fajon of the SD became Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, while former Prime Minister Šarec, who had joined the GS, became Minister of Defence.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>23 October 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a first round of presidential voting, former Minister of Foreign Affairs Logar (standing as an independent endorsed by the SDS) won 34.0% of the votes cast, while Nataša Pirc Musar, an independent supported by several minor parties, received 26.9%. Milan Brglez of the SD, whose candidacy was endorsed by the governing GS, secured 15.5% of the ballot.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 November 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In the second round of presidential voting, Pirc Musar won 53.9% of the votes cast; she took office on 23 December, becoming Slovenia’s first female President.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>20 November and 4 December 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Local elections took place, with a turnout of less than 50%. More than half of mayors were re-elected to their post, including in cities such as Ljubljana.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>27 November 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A national referendum was held on three SDS motions seeking to repeal legislation on the creation of three new ministries, on reforms to the governance of the state broadcaster, and on reforms to social care for elderly people. All three initiatives failed to win the support of either a majority of participants or the required one-fifth of registered voters.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
     </chron-list>
</chronology>