<?xml version="1.0"?>
<country-survey id="HR.EC" id-root="hr" iso="hr" original-filename="hrecon.rtf" print-style="PGWIDTH" sect-type="economy" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>Economy</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Croatia</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Economy</alt-heading>
     <author-group>
          <primary-authors>
               <person-name>
                    <forename>Tena</forename>
                    <surname>Prelec</surname>
               </person-name>
          </primary-authors>
     </author-group>
     <p>Centre for Advanced Studies Southeast Europe, University of Rijeka, Croatia</p>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Introduction</heading>
          <p>After a protracted recession ensuing from the global financial crisis of 2007-08, which lasted much longer than the average for European Union (EU) countries, Croatia has been experiencing a slow recovery that seemed to give rise to cautious optimism by the end of the 2010s. With the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, the predictions of growth for the tourism-reliant country were revised radically downwards.</p>
          <p>The Croatian economy fared considerably better in the post-pandemic period. The short-term economic impact of the pandemic proved slightly less damaging than predicted: according to European Commission estimates, Croatia experienced an 8.4% fall in gross domestic product (GDP) in 2020 (compared with the 9%-11% initially forecast), while GDP then rebounded by 10.2% in 2021 and 6.2% in 2022. In 2023, however, growth has been slow. According to the European Commission’s Spring 2023 economic forecast, Croatia’s GDP is expected to grow by 1.6% in 2023 and by 2.3% in 2024. The Croatian Government’s own projection is even less favourable: it predicts GDP growth of just 0.7% in 2023, followed by 2.7% in 2024 and 2.6% in 2025.</p>
          <p>The Government relied on successful tourist seasons from mid-2021 to drive the economy and offset some of the pandemic losses. Early indicators suggested the tourist season in 2023 was likely to yield a strong result. However, in the medium-to-long term the country’s continued failure to reduce its over-reliance on tourism is exacerbating structural problems. An improvement in the absorption of EU funds has aided recovery. Croatia expects to receive €9,900m. in grants and loans from the EU’s Recovery and Resilience Facility for the period until the end of 2026. This is equivalent to just under 40% of annual budget spending in 2023.</p>
          <p>Employment levels record a positive trend. At the end of April 2023 over 105,000 people were registered as unemployed in Croatia, representing a significant fall from just two years earlier. The overall unemployment rate in April fell to 6.1% (compared with 8.8% in April 2022).</p>
          <p>
      After very high inflation in 2022, the harmonized index of consumer price inflation is expected to decline to 6.9% in 2023 and further decrease to 2.2% in 2024. This downward trend is influenced by the decline in (heavily subsidized) energy prices, which partially offsets the ongoing price growth in services and non-energy industrial goods. As a result, core inflation, which excludes volatile components, is anticipated to reach around 8% in 2023 and 3% in 2024, surpassing headline inflation. Despite the high levels of inflation, Croatia fulfilled its strategic objective to join the eurozone in January 2023 (see 
      <i>Adoption of the Euro</i>
      ).
    </p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Political Developments and their Impact on the Economy</heading>
          <p>Prime Minister Andrej Plenković and his party, the centre-right Hrvatska Demokratska Zajednica (HDZ—Croatian Democratic Union), remain in a strong position in Croatia, despite slow growth and corruption scandals. In 2024 there will be a `super-election’ year, with European, presidential and parliamentary elections planned. The HDZ has a strong lead in the polls, ahead of the opposition. Plenković assumed office as Prime Minister in 2016 and secured re-election in July 2020, and is aiming to secure an unprecedented third term in 2024. According to a Crobarometar survey conducted in May 2023, the HDZ has retained its support, with 30.3% of respondents backing the party. The opposition Socijaldemokratska Partija Hrvatske (SDP—Social Democratic Party of Croatia) ranked second with 12.6%. In April, however, the SDP won a municipal by-election in the city of Varaždin. The HDZ has been engaged in disputes with the centre-left President over foreign and domestic policies. Nevertheless, according to Crobarometar, President Zoran Milanović remains the most popular politician in Croatia, with 38% favouring him. It is possible the HDZ will bring forward the parliamentary elections due in mid-2024, and it will seek a candidate considered capable of defeating Milanović in the presidential contest.</p>
          <p>The Government has continued its pro-business policy, with a focus on reducing fiscal pressures. From 1 January 2021 capital gains tax for high earners was lowered from 12% to 10%, the withholding tax rate on payments to non-resident performers (artists, entertainers and athletes) was reduced from 15% to 10%, and income tax was reduced in several categories. In April 2022 the Government introduced an €1,000m. package to help protect consumers from surging prices—also a prudent move considering that Croatian GDP growth relies heavily on consumer spending. The Government limited the rise in electricity prices to 10% and gas prices to 20%. It reduced the value-added tax (VAT) rate on gas and electricity from 25% to 13%, with an additional cut in VAT on gas to 5% until April 2023. VAT was lowered from 13% to 5% on food products, from 25% to 5% on certain agricultural products, and from 25% to 13% on feminine hygiene products. Promised reductions in public administration expenditure by reducing the number of ministries, however, had not been implemented and did not appear likely in the near future. In early 2023 Plenković announced the abolition of surcharges—additional taxes imposed by local authorities in addition to the standard income tax. This will modestly increase net salaries, although high earners will benefit most, potentially offering some mild economic stimulus. Fiscally, the abolition of surcharges will mainly harm the revenue of Croatia’s largest cities (Zagreb, Split and Rijeka) none of which are controlled by the HDZ.</p>
          <p>
      The Government has brought to completion a controversial infrastructure project, a bridge connecting the Pelješac peninsula in southern Croatia to the rest of the country and thus bypassing a small part of Bosnia and Herzegovina’s territory, which was officially opened in late July 2022. The project was the single most expensive infrastructure endeavour since the European Commission had begun co-financing projects in 1986, costing at least €418m., with 85% of the contribution provided by the EU and 15% by Croatia. It was built by the China Road and Bridge Corporation, marking the first time that a Chinese company had won an EU tender. Pressures from the EU and the USA have stopped other Chinese projects in Croatia. A 
      <i>Wall Street Journal</i>
       investigation published in April 2023 confirmed that US and EU officials prevented a Chinese bid for the port of Rijeka. After cancelling a €2,700m. contract with three Chinese companies in 2021, the Croatian Government awarded the 50-year concession to Maersk-owned APM Terminals.
    </p>
          <p>The most notable electoral contest held in 2023 was the by-election in the northern city of Varaždin, where the SDP achieved a rare victory. This reflects a trend in which the HDZ has dominated among the general public, but has increasingly struggled to retain power in the urban centres. At the mayoral, municipal and regional elections held in May 2021, the most significant change was recorded in Zagreb. The new Mayor, Tomislav Tomašević, belonged to the green-left Možemo!—Politička Platforma (We Can!—Political Platform) coalition. With this result, Zagreb joined a number of European capitals (including those of Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic—Czechia) led by progressive mayors. However, the political success of Možemo! in Zagreb was not wholly unanticipated, having been built on years of political activism. Entering the City Council in 2017 under the name Zagreb je NAŠ! (Zagreb is OURS!), its four councillors had presented an effective opposition to longstanding Mayor Milan Bandić, who died in February 2021. The environmentalist grouping thus became known for its commitment to combating clientelism and corruption, gradually increasing its standing both in the capital and nationally, and entering the Assembly in the 2020 elections. With significant representation in Zagreb’s City Council and a Mayor elected with a strong mandate, the new administration has already been able to make a mark on the economy of the national capital, which accounts for around one-third of the country’s GDP. In particular, by early 2022 it had significantly reduced a widening budget deficit inherited by the Bandić administration and rationalized the multi-utility Zagreb Holding owned by the municipal authority, eliminating much of the excess spending and aiming to stabilize the city budget further in the forthcoming year. The administration’s attempt to rationalize city spending has impinged on vested interests. Tomašević had to face a prolonged strike by city waste management services in late 2022 and early 2023, while a draft decision that was submitted for public consultation in January 2023 has already been met with resistance from companies working in the advertising industry, whose opportunities for lucrative contracts would be affected by it. High levels of inflation have added a further burden to the city budget.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Oversized Public Administration</heading>
          <p>A European Commission assessment classified Croatia as one of the more centralized countries in the EU, on the grounds of the high central government share in general government expenditure (at 66.9% in 2015). Croatia has a relatively large public administration, which has proved difficult to reform. About 293,000 employees, or approximately 18% of the workforce, were employed by the state in 2016 (although Croatian national statistics fail to provide full or structured information about public sector employment, notably lacking data about full-time equivalent posts). Several intended measures for downsizing the public sector have been halted or have not had a significant effect. The oversized public administration is a notorious ground for clientelistic practices, including the potential to vitiate electoral outcomes.</p>
          <p>The most significant recent development with respect to local public administration was the adoption of a new law on local and regional government, which entered into force in January 2020. The law extended the scope of activity of municipalities, cities and counties, which were to take over the duties of the State Administration Office, including the categorization of tourist accommodation, the administration of claims related to the restitution of property that had been confiscated under communism, the organization of work and recruitment in the education sector, and a series of other economic, social, administrative and legal tasks. While the official rationale was decentralization and cost-cutting, experts agreed that this operation would increase the financial burden on local government. This challenge for the local authorities was further compounded by measures introduced in response to the pandemic; some mayors protested that the measures disproportionately affected city budgets and would cause significant damage to local administration. A promised drive to reform the local public administration, which was intended to reduce the extremely high number of local administrative units in Croatia, has yielded low results. At mid-2023 there were 555 local and regional self-government units, of which 428 were municipalities and 127 were towns, in a country of just under 4m. people, and it remains doubtful whether the political will for reducing their number exists.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>The External Sector</heading>
          <p>Croatia’s most significant export partners in 2022 were Italy, which was the recipient of 12.1% of Croatia’s exports, and Slovenia (11.5%); the greatest source of imports in that year was Italy, which supplied 13.8% of the total. The single largest export commodity in 2022, according to provisional data, was machinery and transport equipment, with a value of €4,741.1m., followed by mineral fuels and lubricants (€4,711.2m.) and basic manufactures (€3,850.7m.). However, the largest source of foreign earnings by far is tourism (which generated revenue of a provisional $13,445m. in 2022, according to the World Tourism Organization). The geographical position of the country and its extensive coastline are conducive to a large influx of tourists, although tourism was particularly affected by the restrictions related to the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020-21. Exports of goods and services account for around 46% of GDP, while imports represent 44%. EU economies comprise almost 90% of Croatia’s export market, thus presenting a possible vulnerability.</p>
          <p>
      Croatia is, in general, open to foreign investment, despite the continuing problems associated with an excess of bureaucracy and slow legal processes. The Government has expressed a commitment to increase foreign investment and has taken measures to improve the investment climate in the country. With this aim, it implemented tax reductions and employment incentives for manufacturing, technology centres and support services. Foreign direct investment (FDI) in Croatia totalled €1,240m. in 2019, a rise of 19% compared with 2018. Luxembourg was the largest single foreign investor in Croatia in 2019, providing €286.5m., or 23% of the total, followed by Austria, at €257m. (21%), and Slovenia, at €140.8m. (11%), according to figures from the central bank, the Hrvatska Narodna Banka (HNB—Croatian National Bank). The real estate sector attracted the greatest share of FDI, at €265.5m. Between 1993, when FDI data was first collected, and the end of 2019 Croatia attracted €31,800m. in FDI. The recent adoption of the euro (see 
      <i>Adoption of the Euro</i>
      ) is expected to enhance the investment climate.
    </p>
          <p>Foreign investment has already accelerated with regard to real estate, driving a rapid increase in real estate prices across Croatia, and especially along the coast and in the capital. The average price per sq m increased from €2,400 in 2020 to almost €3,100 in 2022-23, an increase of almost 30% in less than three years. This has had adverse consequences for the local population, especially first-time buyers, who are being priced out by foreign investors. A scheme aimed to encourage young first-time buyers, which was itself a contributing factor to the increase in real estate prices, is likely to be terminated by the Government after 2023. The authorities continue to resist imposing substantial taxation on real estate and on second homes, which contribute to making real estate in Croatia attractive as an investment. Demand is high and supply of housing—both new constructions and older accommodation—is low. Finally, the heavy influx of Ukrainian and Russian migrants, as elsewhere in the region, has been another factor driving up real estate prices.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>The Banking Sector</heading>
          <p>In the late 2010s a recovery in lending to the private sector was facilitated by a well-capitalized and profitable financial sector. Monetary easing (permitted by the banks’ strong external positions, steady foreign exchange outlook and reduced fiscal risk) strengthened liquidity, which in turn allowed a lowering of interest rates. The HNB recorded a further decrease in the bank lending rate, to 2.85% in March 2021. Lending conditions were also eased by strong competition in the banking sector. The banks’ capital levels remained above their regulatory minimum, and in 2019 the overall profitability of the banking sector was on the rise, spurring growth in loans to both households and corporations. In the first half of 2020, however, Croatian banks generated a total gross profit of 1,980m. kuna, which was 47.8% less than during the same period of 2019, demonstrating that the downturn caused by the pandemic had also affected the banking sector. </p>
          <p>The non-performing loan (NPL) ratio continued to fall as a result of improved collection and debt sales, to 5.4% in December 2020. This value was progressively coming closer to the record low of 4.8% recorded in December 2007, having declined considerably from the all-time high of 17.3% recorded in June 2015 (according to HNB figures). While the share of NPLs remains relatively high and its reduction seems to be slowing, in 2019 the European Commission assessed that overall risks to the financial sector were low. However, due to incompatibility with the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation, which entered into effect in May 2018, the credit registry has suspended consumer debt reports since that date. This constitutes a challenge for banks disbursing consumer loans without a clear overview of total client indebtedness.</p>
          <p>A significant merger, between the Croatian branch of the French bank, Société Générale, Splitska Banka, and the Croatian branch of the Hungarian OTP Bank Group, OTP Banka Hrvatska, took place in November 2018. In March 2022 the Austrian authorities closed Sberbank Europe, owned by Sberbank and based in Austria, by order of the European Central Bank (ECB), following a run on deposits due to the war in Ukraine. Its Croatian subsidiary was taken over by the Hrvatska Poštanska Banka.</p>
          <p>The long-term business sustainability of the dozen small banks still active is questionable, in view of issues related to the size of the market and regulatory complexity. On the whole, rising liquidity, low interest rates and a stable foreign exchange rate with a strong national currency, now further strengthened by the introduction of the euro, have remained the main features of the financial markets.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Adoption of the Euro</heading>
          <p>Croatia adopted the euro on 1 January 2023, becoming the 20th EU member state to do so. On the same day Croatia also joined the Schengen area of visa-free travel within the EU and removed border crossings at its frontiers with Slovenia and Hungary. Critics of moving to the euro as currency argued that the timing was unfavourable due to Croatia’s high inflation rate, raising concerns about potential price increases. Its proponents maintained that measures, including legislation and monitoring, had been implemented to prevent unjustified price rises, while highlighting that Croatia’s monetary policy was already de facto constrained by the ECB before adopting the euro. Even if it brings with it a slight increase in inflation in the short term, Croatia’s integration with the euro area and synchronized economic developments are expected to mitigate challenges longer term. Adoption of the euro and accession to the Schengen area are expected to strengthen Croatia’s economy, lower inflation, reduce interest rates and stimulate the tourism sector.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Emigration</heading>
          <p>After Malta, Croatia has the highest rate of emigration among all the countries of the EU. It was estimated in 2019 that over one-fifth (22%) of the Croatian population was living abroad. Croatia’s labour shortage has become very serious, and is one of the reasons for the country lagging behind Western European economies. None the less, the unemployment rate in Croatia was relatively high, reaching 9.7% in January 2021, reflecting a lack of training, a mismatch between higher education and the labour market, low social mobility among Croatians and the still relatively low wages compared with other EU countries. The emigration of sections of the population that are younger, as well as often better educated, has exacerbated the problem of an ageing population. In 2020 the median age in Croatia was 44.3 years, up from 38.9 in 2000, and it was forecast to rise to 49.4 by 2050. The high rate of emigration has also resulted in a lack of workers in certain important sectors, with especially worrying consequences for the scarcity of medical personnel.</p>
          <p>However, a partial offset may be provided by remittances, which have also increased sharply since Croatia’s admission to the EU, when emigration began to surge; their contribution to GDP increased from 3.7% of GDP in 2013 to 7.3% of GDP in 2021 (according to the European Statistical Office—Eurostat). As a consequence, Croatia had by far the highest dependency rate on remittances in the EU. Remittances have helped the country to meet its challenges with the balance of payments. Based on calculations by Eurostat, Croatia’s surplus on the current account of around €1,000m. in 2018 would have become a €1,800m. current-account deficit without remittances flowing into the country. A sharp contraction in remittances during the pandemic has been followed by a rebound. In 2022 emigrants from Croatia sent a total of €5,100m. to their relatives living in the country, representing an increase of €880m., or 20.6%, compared with the previous year.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>From Agrokor to Fortenova</heading>
          <p>For several decades the Agrokor Group, a conglomerate with extensive interests in the agro-industrial sector, in particular, led and majority-owned by Ivica Todorić, had grown in importance until reaching the status of Croatia’s largest company. By the mid-2010s the firm employed about 60,000 workers and recorded annual revenues of €6,500m., which accounted for about 15% of the country’s GDP. Todorić led the conglomerate in acquiring a series of assets in the food and beverage sector. However, the purchases were debt-financed, and little effort was undertaken to integrate the acquisitions. In January 2017 it became apparent that Agrokor had simply borrowed too much and was unable to service its debts. Due to Agrokor’s importance for the Croatian economy, its collapse was considered unthinkable and intervention by the Government became inevitable. On 6 April the Government passed the Act on Special Administration Procedures for Companies of Systemic Importance for the Republic of Croatia, which allowed it to appoint a special administrator to restructure the company. Although not explicitly stated, it was evident to the media and the public that this law targeted Todorić’s company specifically, and it was thus dubbed `Lex Agrokor’.</p>
          <p>A special administrator, Ante Ramljak, was appointed and Todorić removed. In May 2017, after initial checks, Ramljak disclosed that Agrokor’s total liabilities amounted to €5,400m. At the start of June Agrokor raised a further €480m. in loans from a consortium of hedge funds and local banks. This provided the company with working capital to operate during the summer tourist season. Meanwhile, Ramljak warned investors that Agrokor’s past financial statements could not be relied upon and hired PriceWaterhouseCoopers (PwC) to conduct an audit. In October Agrokor published PwC’s findings, which exposed huge accounting irregularities. PwC reported that, under Todorić, Agrokor had greatly overstated its assets and profits and understated its liabilities, finding €500m. of previously undisclosed liabilities and concluding that Agrokor had made a loss of €1,500m. in 2016. In November 2017 Todorić turned himself in at a police station in London, United Kingdom, where he had evaded justice in Croatia while arguing via his blog that the Croatian Government was conducting a campaign of persecution against him. Having lost an extradition trial in the UK, Todorić was obliged to return to Croatia.</p>
          <p>The Agrokor case had further ramifications: in 2018 media outlets published a series of documents showing that senior government officials (notably the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Economy, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Crafts, and former Minister of Finance, Martina Dalić) had been directly involved in a clandestine agreement with a group of lawyers and businessmen (popularly known as the `Borg Group’), who had helped in drafting the Lex Agrokor and later benefited from contracts with Agrokor while it was being restructured. As a result, Dalić resigned from her government post in May. Agrokor’s business operations were transferred to the newly formed Fortenova Group in April 2019, under a settlement agreement with creditors. The Russian banks Sberbank and VTB, which were significant creditors to Agrokor, subsequently owned 46.7% of the company (Sberbank with a 39.2% stake and VTB with 7.5%). Other significant shareholders included holders of Agrokor bonds, with a 24.9% stake; Croatian financial institutions, with 15.3%; and suppliers, with 4.7%. Further controversy arose in 2019, when Fortenova accused the Slovenian Government of trying to expropriate Agrokor’s stake in Slovenia’s largest retail chain, Mercator.</p>
          <p>The legacy of the management of the Agrokor affair by Plenković’s HDZ Government is contested. While public opinion was shaken by the evident conflict of interest of the Borg Group, and judged this involvement harshly, international investors were impressed by the ability of the Government to salvage a situation that had the potential to inflict very significant damage on the Croatian economy. The former owner of Agrokor, Todorić, was subject to a series of legal proceedings, having been suspected of making illegal gains of at least €120m.</p>
          <p>In November 2022 Russia’s Sberbank sold its 43.4% stake in Fortenova to an investor from the United Arab Emirates. The deal raised concerns about possible violations of Western sanctions against Russia, and Croatian officials questioned its legality, as Sberbank’s assets are under EU sanctions. In April 2023 Fortenova announced the start of an `international process’ to sell the Dutch holding company that fully owns the Croatian entity.</p>
          <p>
      Pavao Vujnovac (see 
      <i>Energy, Cronyism and Corruption</i>
      ), a businessman with political connections and interests in energy, retail and other sectors of the domestic economy, was further developing his portfolio in Fortenova in 2023, having already acquired 29% of shares. Meanwhile, Barbara Dorić, who was previously a member of the board of national oil and gas company Industrija Nafte (INA) and was reported to be close to Vujnovac, became investment director at Fortenova. In June 2023 a public offering failed to attract interest from new investors, giving further credence to speculation that Vujnovac might eventually control the company.
    </p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Croatia as a Regional Technology Hub</heading>
          <p>With two `unicorn’ start-ups—information technology (IT) company Infobip and electric vehicle manufacturer Rimac Automobili—Croatia has been emerging as a leading technology hub in South-Eastern Europe.</p>
          <p>In late July 2020, after raising over US&#160;$200m. from private equity firm One Equity Partners, Infobip was valued at over $1,000m., thereby becoming Croatia’s first `unicorn’ start-up. The IT giant, based in Istria (the country’s largest peninsula, in north-western Croatia), operates mainly in the application-to-person short message service (A2P SMS) market. Infobip, which was founded in 2006, generated $602m. in revenue in 2019, with a compound annual growth rate of 48% over the decade. The company is now important to the overall development of the country’s technology ecosystem, investing in start-ups working on areas such as artificial intelligence tools and robotics. It has become a global company, having established offices worldwide as well as in neighbouring countries.</p>
          <p>Another Croatian IT company, Infinum, is also seeking to expand to neighbouring Montenegro, while having acquired Macedonian software company 3P Development in December 2021. Such moves will allow Croatian firms to capitalize on regional IT talent, while helping to develop the industry in parts of the region that have fewer information and communications technology capabilities and need new job-creation opportunities.</p>
          <p>In March 2021 German car manufacturer Porsche increased its stake in the Croatian electric commercial vehicles company Rimac Automobili, from 15% to 24%. This investment was believed to be worth around €70m., which brought the company to a valuation of US $980m., around the $1,000m. `unicorn’ threshold. Since then the company has continued to expand and engage in new projects and sectors. In November 2021 Rimac Automobili and Bugatti began operating under a new company name, Bugatti Rimac, marking Rimac’s fusion with the legacy car manufacturer. In May 2023 the Rimac group announced its entry into the stationary energy storage systems market with a new brand, Rimac Energy. Later that month CEO Mate Rimac presented a collaborative real estate development, the `Bugatti-Binghatti’ luxury residences, in Dubai.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section id="HR.15302759481" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Energy, Cronyism and Corruption</heading>
          <p>Croatia’s energy sector is intertwined with that of Hungary. The energy company MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas, based in the Hungarian capital, Budapest, is a major shareholder in Croatia’s oil and gas company INA, which has been de facto controlled by MOL since 2012. The relationship between the two has been fraught, and remains probably the greatest source of political scandal in Croatia: from the former Prime Minister, Ivo Sanader, who (following lengthy legal proceedings against him) in December 2019 was convicted of receiving a €10m. bribe to facilitate MOL’s effective takeover of INA, to the former deputy premier, Tomislav Karamarko, whose wife had very profitable business relations with MOL’s chief representative in Croatia. INA’s activity in the (loss-making) gas sub-sector has been particularly controversial, as MOL sought to decouple the oil and gas businesses, leaving the latter to the Croatian Government. In Croatia, the majority view has been that MOL has neglected the development of INA as a whole, and of the gas business in particular.</p>
          <p>The energy ties between the two countries extend beyond INA. One of Croatia’s largest energy investments, the liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminal on the Adriatic island of Krk, would have been economically unfeasible without Hungary renting a large proportion of its storage capacity. Energy and geopolitics are often connected: the initially muted reaction of the Croatian political leadership towards the accusations of rule of law violations brought against the Hungarian administration of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán by the European Commission has been linked with these developments. The total investment costs to build the LNG terminal amounted to €233.6m. The European Commission pledged a significant contribution of €101.4m. from the Connecting Europe Facility, managed by the Commission through the Innovation and Networks Executive Agency (now superseded by the European Climate Infrastructure and Environment Executive Agency). The remaining costs were covered by the Croatian state budget (€100m.) and through a direct equity contribution of €32.2m. from the LNG terminal company shareholders. The Government pursued this major undertaking despite open recognition that the LNG would not be competitively priced, in comparison with gas originating from Russia. With hindsight, this proved to be the right decision; following the opening of the LNG terminal in January 2021, Croatia’s dependence on Russian gas has declined. This has enabled Croatia to limit the impact of the energy sanctions that the EU imposed against Russia following its invasion of Ukraine in February 2022.</p>
          <p>Amid increases in the cost of living, the state electricity utility, HEP, found itself in a challenging situation as the Government required it to purchase all the gas produced by INA at a fixed price. Initially introduced in November 2022, this measure aimed to shield consumers from potential price rises. In the months that followed, however, the price of gas plummeted, making the situation more complex. None the less, the Government confirmed and expanded the measure in March 2023, obliging INA to increase gas production while raising the set price at which HEP had to purchase it. As market prices continued to drop, domestic demand for gas remained low amid excess production. Storage capacity was exceeded. Consequently, HEP faced a surplus of gas that it was forced to buy at the now much higher prices. HEP was thus compelled to resell the excess gas, with some buyers making substantial profits. The estimated loss for the Croatian state-owned utility, according to calculations by opposition politicians, could have been as high as €500,000 per day at certain periods. The situation raised concerns, prompted parliamentary debate and attracted the attention of the special agency for organized crime, USKOK (Ured za Suzbijanje Korupcije i Organiziranog Kriminaliteta), which launched an investigation in July 2023. Notably, only a few buyers had the capacity to manage such a transaction successfully. These included those with private storage facilities and well-positioned players in international trading markets, such as Pavao Vujnovac’s Prvo Plinarsko Društvo (PPD).</p>
          <p>PPD is the most interesting private actor in Croatia’s gas sector. Although the company was established as long ago as 2001, it experienced a dramatic ascent during the 2010s, recording a 155-fold increase in its turnover between 2010 and 2019. PPD was founded as a joint venture aimed at stimulating the development and expansion of the natural gas distribution network during the period of post-war reconstruction of the Vukovar region, in north-eastern Croatia. In 2006 the firm was purchased by the Dél-dunántúli Gázhálózati Zrt (DDGÁZ—Southern Transdanubian Gas Provider), based in Pécs, Hungary, and majority-owned by German-based E.ON Energie AG. The move was part of a wider attempt by E.ON, traditionally an electricity utility provider, to establish itself in the gas business. In 2010, after the economic crisis, E.ON changed strategy and sold PPD to a Croatian investment fund owned by entrepreneur Pavao Vujnovac.</p>
          <p>After the initial consolidation, the company management adopted a new approach: in addition to strengthening the gas distribution system and expanding its client base, it planned to take advantage of the liberalization of the gas market—branching into trade. It was only after this change in ownership, and headed by Vujnovac, that the firm started to experience rapid growth. It seemed a very bold move at the time; Vujnovac took over a company that recorded a 50m. kuna (€5.7m.) turnover, with a 8m. kuna loss, in 2010. By 2017, however, its turnover had reached 7,700m. kuna, with a profit of more than 250m. kuna.</p>
          <p>This success enabled a considerable business expansion into other areas: the Energia Naturalis (ENNA) group, the holding company of PPD, acquired a 25% stake in the Adriatic port of Ploče (Luka Ploče d.d.), near Split, where it began to develop terminals for the import of petroleum products and a terminal for liquid petroleum gas (LPG). It furthermore entered the railway transport business, acquired 27% of the retail chain Pevec, and is now operating well beyond Croatian borders, with affiliate companies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Hungary, Serbia, Slovenia and Switzerland. In October 2018 the entry in the tribunal register for PPD recorded a change in the official activities of the company, from `gas distribution’ to `gas trade’, and then to `gas import, supply and trade’ a few months later—indicating PPD’s continuing ambitions.</p>
          <p>In a very short time, PPD thus transformed from a small regional firm into one of the largest private companies in Croatia by turnover, dominating the natural gas import market. While PPD’s rise was certainly a result of business acumen, it was also an outcome of a very advantageous collaboration with the Russian state-controlled hydrocarbons company Gazprom. The close business relationship with Gazprom proved to be critical in PPD’s development, with the firm importing Russian gas through Hungary at favourable prices. In September 2017 Gazprom and PPD made this partnership official and signed a 10-year contract for the exclusive distribution of gas supplied by Gazprom to the Croatian market, with a value estimated at €200m.-€250m. per year. It was considered to be one of the largest contracts ever signed in Croatia and it raised concerns over the country’s dependency on Russian gas.</p>
          <p>
      Due to recent developments resulting from the war in Ukraine and the EU sanctions levied against Russia’s energy imports, PPD’s weight in the Croatian energy sector has decreased, but Vujnovac’s business empire continues to grow. Notably, PPD maintained links with Fortenova (see 
      <i>From Agrokor to Fortenova</i>
      ); in addition to a 6% stake owned by PPD itself, Vujnovac has stated that he personally owns some 26% of the company. Vujnovac also holds a stake in Energija Naturalis, part of the APM Terminals
      
      -led consortium now in charge of the port of Rijeka, after the Chinese bid failed (see 
      <i>Political Developments and their Impact on the Economy</i>
      ). Vujnovac has been close to the Croatian political elites for years, and in 2015 assisted in financing the presidential campaign of HDZ candidate Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović.
    </p>
     </gen-section>
</country-survey>