<?xml version="1.0"?>
<country-survey id="HR.GE" id-root="hr" iso="hr" original-filename="hrvgeog.rtf" print-style="PGWIDTH" sect-type="geography" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <country-head>Croatia</country-head>
     <heading>Geography</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Croatia</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Geography</alt-heading>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Physical Features</heading>
          <p id="HR.GEOG.1">
      The Republic of Croatia has a long western coastline on the Adriatic Sea. It is bordered by Slovenia to the north-west, Hungary to the north-east and Serbia (the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina) to the east. Bosnia and Herzegovina abuts into Croatia, forming a southern border along the Sava river, and an eastern one inland from the Dalmatian coast which stretches southwards. At the southern tip of this narrowing stretch of Croatia, beyond a short coastal strip of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is the territory of Dubrovnik (once known as Ragusa), which has a short border with Montenegro. (The construction of a bridge to allow direct road access from Dubrovnik to the rest of Croatia commenced in 2018 and opened in 2022
      
      .)
    </p>
          <p id="HR.GEOG.2">Croatia, which has a total area of 56,594 sq&#160;km (21,851 sq&#160;miles), consists of two principal parts: there is a long coastal region, narrowing as it goes south, extending from the Istrian peninsula, down the Dalmatian coast to the area of the former city state of Dubrovnik; the north of this coastal region is attached, by a relatively narrow bridge of territory, to eastern Croatia, which extends inland. Beyond the waist’ attaching it to the coast, the country widens out into Croatia proper, beyond the mountains, and stretches eastwards. Slo­venia juts into this waist from the north-west, and Bosnia and Herzegovina from the south-east. To the north-east of the waist lies the capital, Zagreb. Eastwards is the fertile territory of Slavonia, an ancient province that is situated on the plains between the Drava and the Sava rivers. Western or coastal Croatia is defined by the mountains running parallel to the littoral, which is fringed with more than 1,100 islets and islands.</p>
          <figure-group media="PRINT">
               <figure filename="/raidtec/esdata/EUROPA/EECIS/GRAPHICS/EPS/Croatia.lay" />
          </figure-group>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Climate</heading>
          <p id="HR.GEOG.3">The climate in Croatia is Mediterranean on the coast and continental inland. The highlands have a colder climate with heavy snow in winter, but in summer it can be very hot. Annual temperatures inland average 10°C (50°F), while on the coast the mean temperature is 15°C (59°F). Rainfall is fairly constant throughout the year, although summer is the wettest season in the north of the country. The average annual rainfall is 890&#160;mm in Zagreb.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Population</heading>
          <p id="HR.GEOG.4">
      According to the results of the census of 31 August 2021, the 
      <i>de jure</i>
       population totalled 3,871,833, giving a density of 68.4 per sq&#160;km. Ethnic Croats comprised 91.6% of Croatia’s total population at the 2021 census, while there was a Serb minority of 3.2%. The Croatian and Serbian languages were referred to as variants of Serbo-Croatian during the Yugoslav period. Croatian is written exclusively in the Latin script (in contrast, Serbian is more commonly written in the Cyrillic script). Latin-rite Catholicism is the largest religious denomination (79.0% of the population described themselves as Catholics at the 2021 census), while 3.3% of the population (principally ethnic Serbs) described themselves as Orthodox, and 1.3% as Muslim. The capital, Zagreb, is the largest city in the country (with a population of 767,131 at the 2021 census). The most populous towns of the coast are Split (with a population of 160,577), in the central coastal area, and Rijeka (107,964), in the north. The main town of Slavonia, Osijek, had a population of 96,313.
    </p>
     </gen-section>
</country-survey>