<?xml version="1.0"?>
<country-survey id="HR.HI" id-root="hr" iso="hr" original-filename="hrvhist.rtf" print-style="PGWIDTH" sect-type="history" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>History</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Croatia</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">History</alt-heading>
     <author-group>
          <primary-authors>
               <person-name>
                    <forename>Marcus</forename>
                    <surname>Tanner</surname>
               </person-name>
          </primary-authors>
     </author-group>
     <p>Journalist and author</p>
     <p id="HR.HI.P1">
    The Croats began migrating into the Balkan Peninsula from the fifth century 
    <sc>ce</sc>
    , following the collapse of the Roman Empire, from a region that is now Belarus and Ukraine. The word Croat (Hrvat) points to an Iranian (Persian) or Ostrogothic origin, but the Croats were a Slavic tribe by the time they settled in the old Roman province of Dalmatia and in the Pannonian hinterland. By about 800 they had organized themselves into several dukedoms and accepted Christianity. Unlike their Serb neighbours, the Croats looked to Rome rather than Constantinople (Byzantium, later İstanbul, Turkey—now known as Türkiye) for their faith, a decision of immense significance for their future cultural and political development. The various Croat entities were united into one unit under Tomislav, who ruled a large area covering most of modern Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in about 910-29, and was crowned Croatia’s first King, according to legend, in 925.
  </p>
     <p id="HR.HI.P2">The Croatian kingdom was unable to maintain its independence. After King Dimitar Zvonimir died without an heir in 1089, neighbouring Hungary invaded and the country remained a separate, junior kingdom within Hungary until the 1520s. After the last Hungarian king was killed in battle against the Ottoman Turks at Mohács (Mohač) in 1526, the Hungarian-Croatian crown passed to the Habsburgs. Union with Austria did not halt the advance of the Ottomans, who by the end of the 16th century had seized most of Croatia, except for a small area around the city of Zagreb. This remnant preserved its separate status within the Habsburg Empire. However, the Habsburgs placed Croatian territory along the Ottoman border under military jurisdiction. This `Vojna Krajina’ (Military Frontier) was governed without reference to the Croatian parliament, the Sabor (Assembly). The Habsburgs encouraged immigration into the Krajina of Serbian Orthodox refugees from the Ottoman Empire, permanently altering Croatia’s ethnic and religious composition.</p>
     <p id="HR.HI.P3">The Austrian campaigns of the 1680s and 1690s liberated Croatia from Turkish rule. However, most of the new land was assigned to the Vojna Krajina, which created tension with the Croat noble class that controlled the Assembly. In the late 18th century Hungarian nationalists began to demand greater control over Croatia. This pressure stimu­lated the rise of a Slav national consciousness among the Croats. This national revival gained momentum after Hungary’s revolt in 1848, when the Croats fought against Hungary on the side of the Habsburgs. The national movement in Croatia was confused. Some sought a common Slav front with the Serbs against the Hungarians, and called themselves Illyrians (`Yugoslavs’ or Southern Slavs). Their leader in the mid-&#160;to late 19th century was the bishop of Đakovo, Josip Juraj Strossmayer. Opposition to the Illyrians was led by Ante Starčević and his Stranka Prava (Party of Rights), who supported the historic rights of the Croat kingdom and the establishment of an independent Croatia, rather than a joint Croat-Serb state.</p>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>The Yugoslav Period</heading>
          <p id="HR.HI.P4">The collapse of the Habsburg Empire at the end of the First World War posed a threat to Croatia, as Italy sought the annexation of Dalmatia, while Serbia aspired to gain Bosnia and parts of Slavonia. To prevent the partition of Croat lands, a group of Croat intellectuals established a `Yugoslav Committee’ to negotiate the union of all Croat, Serb and Slovene lands in one state. The establishment in 1918 of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, which later became Yugoslavia, was marred by misunderstandings. The Croats believed that they had been promised a federal state. The Serbs treated the union as an annexation and, in 1921, forced through a Constitution centralizing power in Belgrade, the Serbian capital, and abolishing Croatia as an historic unit.</p>
          <p id="HR.HI.P5">Yugoslav politics between the First and Second World Wars was dominated by the struggle over the question of Croatian autonomy. The struggle reached its height in 1928 when the Croats’ popular leader, Stjepan Radić, was assassinated in the parliament building in Belgrade by a pro-Government deputy. King Aleksandar I used this murder as a pretext to establish a royal dictatorship in January 1929. The imposition of the dictatorship resulted in the flight of extreme Croat nationalists and the formation in exile of a radical, militant Croat nationalist Ustaša (Rebel) movement. Led by a former Zagreb lawyer, Ante Pavelić, the movement was responsible for the assassination of Aleksandar in Marseille, France, in 1934.</p>
          <p id="HR.HI.P6">
      The new Regent, Prince Pavle, acting for King Petar II, resolved to appease Croat grievances, and a 
      <i>sporazum</i>
       (agreement) granting Croatia autonomy was signed shortly before the outbreak of the Second World War. However, in March 1941 the Regent was overthrown by a military coup, after acceding to German demands to join a German-Italian military pact. The German invasion on 6 April led to the establishment, three days later, of a fascist, Ustaša-run Independent State of Croatia (Nezavisna Država Hrvatska), which was granted extensive territories by the Axis Powers, covering most of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The large Serb minority staged an uprising against the newly independent Croatia. The Ustaša also confronted an insurrection by communist Partisans (the National Liberation Army), led by the Croat head of the Komunistička Partija Jugoslavije (Communist Party of Yugoslavia), Josip Broz, known as Tito. The revolts were partly a response to the Ustaša’s Nazi-inspired pogroms against Croatia’s Serbs, Jews and Gypsies (Roma). These led to the virtual extermination of the Jewish population of Croatia and Bosnia, and to the deaths of thousands of Serbs. The exact death toll among the Serbs in Croatia’s most notorious concentration camp, at Jasenovać, south of Zagreb, was to cause bitter controversy after the Second World War.
    </p>
          <p id="HR.HI.P7">Tito’s communist Partisans entered Belgrade in November 1944, and in May 1945 Pavelić fled to Argentina. As a result, Croatia became one of the six constituent republics that comprised post-war Yugoslavia. The new communist regime ruthlessly suppressed its opponents and in 1946 turned its attention to its most influential opponent in Croatia, the Roman Catholic Church. The Archbishop of Zagreb, Alojzije Stepinać, was arrested on charges of collaboration with the Pavelić regime and sentenced to 16 years’ imprisonment. He was released under house arrest in 1951 and died 11 years later (he was beatified by Pope John Paul II in 1998).</p>
          <p id="HR.HI.P8">Tito’s break with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1948 failed immediately to ease the climate of repression in Yugoslavia. Liberalization came only after the removal from power in 1966 of Tito’s Vice-President and presumed successor, a Serb, Aleksandar Ranković. The relaxation led to the growth of a reform movement within the Croatian communist party known as the `Croatian Spring’. Led by Savka Dabčević-Kučar and Miko Tripalo, the movement demanded greater cultural, fiscal and political autonomy for the Yugoslav republics, and received strong support from the population in Croatia. After the leaders of the Croatian Spring organized larger rallies and became more strident, Tito demanded their resignations. The removal of Dabčević-Kučar and Tripalo was followed by a purge of nationalists in the Croatian communist party, the media and higher education. Others, such as Croatia’s future President, Franjo Tuđman, were imprisoned. Meanwhile, a new Constitution, introduced in 1974, gave more power to the six constituent republics of Yugoslavia and to Serbia’s two autonomous provinces, Kosovo and Vojvodina.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>War and Independence</heading>
          <p id="HR.HI.P9">Tito’s death in May 1980 was followed by a smooth transition of power to a collective head of state. However, by the early 1980s the country was experiencing a severe economic downturn. As Western loans were suspended, the republics began to quarrel publicly over economic strategy and the large military budget. Economic woes precipitated an increase in ethnic tension across Yugoslavia, especially in the Serbian-controlled but mainly ethnically Albanian province of Kosovo. Serbian frustration over Kosovo led in September 1987 directly to the ascendancy of Slobodan Milošević, an uncompromising Serb nationalist, who became President of the Serbian State Presidency in May 1989. Milošević’s appeal to previously buried Serb national grievances provoked a counter-movement among Croats and Slovenes, whose communist leaders announced that multi-party elections would be held in both republics in early 1990. The Savez Komunista Hrvatske (League of Communists of Croatia), led by Ivica Račan from December 1989, was confident of victory in the elections of 22 April 1990. Instead, Račan was defeated by the Hrvatska Demokratska Zajednica (HDZ—Croatian Democratic Union), led by the Croatian Spring veteran, Franjo Tuđman, who was elected President by the Assembly on 30 May. The HDZ’s victory was mitigated by the success in the Krajina of a Serb nationalist party, which established itself as the voice of the Croatian Serbs.</p>
          <p id="HR.HI.P10">After a new Croatian Constitution, adopted in June 1990, reduced the status of Serbs from being one of the two `constituent nations’ in Croatia to that of a `national minority’, on 17 August Serb militants seized the northern Dalmatian town of Knin, proclaiming a `Serb Autonomous Region (SAR) of Krajina’ on 1 October. The Serb-dominated Yugoslav People’s Army (JNA) was supplying arms to the Croatian Serbs, who by October 1991 had established two more SARs, in Eastern Slavonia and Western Slavonia. The Serb campaigns in Croatia prompted Croatia and Slovenia to accelerate their secession from Yugoslavia, and on 19 May 1991 Croatia held a referendum in which a majority voted in favour of independence. On 25 June the legislatures of both Slovenia and Croatia declared the independence of their respective republics.</p>
          <p id="HR.HI.P11">The months after the declaration of independence were marked by intense fighting. Serb forces gained control of almost one-third of Croatian territory. Both sides invested particular importance in the town of Vukovar, in Eastern Slavonia, which finally fell to Serb forces on 18 November 1991. By December both sides had accepted an offer of mediation by the United Nations (UN) envoy, Cyrus Vance, a former US Secretary of State, which led to the ceasefire agreement of 2 January 1992.</p>
          <p id="HR.HI.P12">On 15 January 1992 the European Community (later the European Union—EU) announced its unanimous recognition of Croatia and Slovenia. The ceasefire agreement signed that month involved the withdrawal of the JNA from Croatia, including from the `Republic of Serb Krajina’ (RSK), which was designated a UN Protected Area (UNPA). However, the RSK’s forces were not disarmed. As a result, Croatian opinion shifted rapidly against the agreement in 1992. In August Tuđman was re-elected President.</p>
          <p id="HR.HI.P13">In April 1995 the re-equipped Croatian army attacked the weakest point in the RSK, an exposed triangle of land in central Slavonia. `Operation Flash’ was successful and the enclave was promptly occupied. President Tuđman ordered a general assault on the RSK on 4 August. `Operation Storm’ was a rapid success. The following day the Croatian army entered Knin. Three days later Croatia controlled the whole of the RSK, apart from a strip of land along the Danube. About 180,000 Serbs, almost the entire civilian population, fled east into Serb-held Bosnia and towards Serbia.</p>
          <p id="HR.HI.P14">The defeat of Serb forces in the RSK and in western Bosnia and Herzegovina opened the way for talks at Dayton, Ohio, USA, between Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and the `rump’ Yugoslavia (comprising Serbia and Montenegro) in November 1995, which led to the end of the war. The section of the Dayton peace accords pertaining to Croatia was signed in mid-November. The Basic Agreement was to restore to Croatia the last remnant of the RSK (Eastern Slavonia) through a gradual transfer of power; this was completed two years later.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Towards EU Membership</heading>
          <p id="HR.HI.P15">In the presidential election of June 1997, Tuđman was re-elected with 61% of the votes. However, Tuđman’s authoritarian politics confounded Croatia’s attempts to join international institutions and the country was prevented from applying for EU membership until his death in December 1999. In the parliamentary elections of 3 January 2000, the HDZ lost its majority to a coalition led by the Socijaldemokratska Partija Hrvatske (SDP—Social Democratic Party—formerly the League of Communists) and the Hrvatska Socijalno-Liberalna Stranka (Croatian Social Liberal Party).</p>
          <p id="HR.HI.P16">The opposition repeated its victory in the presidential election of 7 February 2000, which was won by Stjepan (Stipe) Mesić, the last President of the Presidency of the former pre-1992 Yugoslavia and independent Croatia’s first Prime Minister. The EU signalled its approval of Mesić’s election by announcing that initial negotiations on Croatian membership of the Union were to commence.</p>
          <p id="HR.HI.P17">The new Prime Minister, Ivica Račan, the SDP Chairman and former communist leader of Croatia, pledged to reconstruct the economy and end restrictions on media freedom. In October 2001 Croatia signed a Stabilization and Association Agreement with the EU and in February 2003 Croatia presented its formal request for admission to the Union. The EU decided to await the outcome of legislative elections. In November the HDZ, by this time led by Ivo Sanader, again emerged as the party with the largest representation in the Assembly. In April 2004 the European Commission recommended the opening of formal negotiations on Croatia’s application for EU membership.</p>
          <p id="HR.HI.P18">A widespread view that centrist politics had benefited the country increased support for Mesić in January 2005, when he contested the election for a further five-year presidential term. He received 65.9% of the votes cast in the second round, held on 16 January, defeating the candidate of the HDZ, Jadranka Kosor. EU accession talks were officially opened on 4 October.</p>
          <p id="HR.HI.P19">At the legislative elections of November 2007, Sanader’s HDZ was placed first, securing 66 of the 153 seats in the Assembly and 36.6% of the votes cast, while the SDP took 56 seats (31.2% of the vote). Sanader subsequently formed a new coalition administration. On 1 April 2009 Croatia joined the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). On 1 July Sanader resigned as Prime Minister and HDZ Chairman, giving no explanation, transferring power to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Family, Veterans’ Affairs and Intergenerational Solidarity, Kosor. After forming a new Government, Kosor moved to address Slovenia’s objections to Croatia’s further progress in EU accession talks, which mainly related to a dispute over maritime borders. In September, after the two countries agreed to abide by the decision of a court of international arbitration in the border dispute, Slovenia ended its veto.</p>
          <p id="HR.HI.P231">The ruling party mismanaged its chances of securing the presidency on the expiry of Mesić’s second mandate. A total of three HDZ members presented their candidacies, dividing the right-wing vote. The SDP candidate, Ivo Josipović progressed to a second round on 10 January 2010, with Milan Bandić, the Mayor of Zagreb. Josipović, a law professor and classical musician, comfortably won, with 60.3% of the votes.</p>
          <p id="HR.HI.P241">The question of state corruption remained at the fore throughout 2010. In October a former Deputy Prime Minister, Damir Polančec, was sentenced to 15 months’ imprisonment on charges of abuse of state funds. A former Minister of Defence, Berislav Rončević, was imprisoned in December for a term of four years on similar charges. In addition, former Prime Minister Sanader was increasingly mentioned in connection with an official investigation into the alleged embezzlement of state funds. Sanader hurriedly left the country, but was arrested in Austria on 10 December, under an international arrest warrant. The Croatian Government subsequently initiated extradition procedures.</p>
          <p>The electorate now sought a change of leadership. At the legislative elections held on 4 December 2011, the centre-left Kukuriku coalition, led by the SDP, secured 80 of the 151 seats in the Assembly (with 45.7% of the total votes cast). The HDZ obtained just 47 seats (18.4% of the votes). President Josipović appointed the SDP leader, Zoran Milanović, as Prime Minister. However, on 9 December it was Kosor, rather than Milanović, who, together with President Josipović, signed Croatia’s Treaty of Accession with the EU at a Council meeting in Brussels, Belgium. On 21 May 2012 she was replaced as HDZ leader by Tomislav Karamarko, a former Minister of the Interior. Meanwhile, one of the first major tasks of Milanović’s administration was to organize a referendum on EU membership. In the poll, which was held on 22 January, 66.3% of those who participated voted in favour of Croatia joining the EU, although only 43.5% of the electorate turned out to vote. Croatia was admitted to the EU on 1 July 2013.</p>
          <p>The trial of Sanader, several of his erstwhile associates and the HDZ itself commenced on 16 April 2012. Collectively, the defendants were accused of having illegally channelled around €6m. from public enterprises into an illicit party fund. The HDZ was alleged to have taken about €4m. of this amount and Sanader the remaining €2m. On 20 November the Zagreb County Court sentenced Sanader to 10 years’ imprisonment, having found him guilty of accepting a bribe from the Hungarian oil company MOL, in return for securing it controlling rights in Croatia’s state oil company, Industrija Nafte. (Following appeals and a retrial, in December 2019 Sanader, who had been imprisoned on other corruption charges, received a six-year sentence in connection with the bribe.)</p>
          <p>Meanwhile, the Prime Minister’s prestige was damaged after a coalition of socially conservative groups challenged the Government over the question of gay rights. Milanović’s Government was widely believed to be planning to introduce legislation allowing same-sex marriage. In a pre-emptive move, an alliance of Catholic and conservative groups, U Ime Obitelji (In the Name of the Family), collected 750,000 signatures in support of demands for a referendum on a constitutional amendment that would explicitly define marriage as existing solely between a man and a woman. A poll duly took place on 1 December 2013, at which 66.3% of those who voted supported the proposed constitutional change; 37.9% of the electorate participated.</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section id="HR.15302878021" print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Power Swings to the Right</heading>
          <p id="HR.HI.P34">The HDZ performed strongly at elections to the European Parliament on 25 May 2014. In coalition with five other parties, it secured 41.4% of the votes cast and six of the 11 seats allocated to Croatia. An alliance led by the SDP won 29.9% of the votes and four seats. A new environmentalist party, Održivi Razvoj Hrvatske (Sustainable Development of Croatia), obtained 9.4% and one seat. The rate of participation was just 25.1%.</p>
          <p>The European elections were widely interpreted as a test run for the presidential election due at the end of 2014. The re-election of the centre-left incumbent, Josipović, had initially been considered inevitable. However, it became clear that many voters intended to treat the presidential poll as a referendum on the policies of the SDP-led Government, after its position on gay rights and on Croatian Serb minority rights had angered the Catholic nationalist right, while its adoption of economic austerity measures had disappointed voters on the left.</p>
          <p id="HR.HI.P35">Standing as an independent, Josipović won the first round of the presidential election on 28 December 2014, securing 39.1% of the votes, just ahead of the HDZ candidate, former Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović, with 37.8%. A radical activist, Ivan Sinčić, the candidate of newly formed party Živi Zid (Human Shield), took many of the left-wing votes that might otherwise have gone to Josipović, and won an unanticipated 16.7%.</p>
          <p id="HR.HI.P36">In the event, Grabar-Kitarović secured a slender victory in the run-off poll on 11 January 2015, winning 50.7% of the votes, compared with 49.3% for Josipović, with a turnout of 59.1%. This unexpected development was soon overshadowed by the Balkan migration crisis, which began in September after Hungary closed its southern border to large numbers of refugees fleeing from conflicts in the Middle East. Since the start of 2015 many thousands of migrants had followed a route known as the Balkan Corridor from Turkey to Western Europe via Greece and the Western Balkans to Hungary. Once Hungary closed its border with Serbia in mid-September, the columns diverted westwards from Serbia to Croatia, from where migrants entered either Hungary or Slovenia, and then Austria. The Croatian Government closed its border with Serbia on 18 September, and in November curbs were imposed by Croatia and other countries in the region on the further entry of migrants, except those with documents proving that they came from the war-torn countries of Iraq, the Syrian Arab Republic or Afghanistan. By this time over 400,000 people had entered Croatia.</p>
          <p id="HR.HI.P40">On 5 October 2015 President Grabar-Kitarović called legislative elections for 8 November. The results provided neither of the two main parties with a majority in the Assembly. The HDZ-led centre-right Domoljubna Koalicija (Patriotic Coalition) and the SDP-led centre-left coalition, Hrvatska Raste (Croatia is Growing), won 59 and 56 seats, respectively, out of 151, leaving a political newcomer, the Most Nezavisnih Lista (Most—Bridge of Independent Lists), which won 19 seats, in the position of kingmaker. On 23 December the HDZ and Most announced that, with their combined total of 78 seats (a majority of two), they had agreed to form a government led by a non-party technocrat, Tihomir Orešković, with HDZ leader Karamarko and Most leader Božo Petrov serving as Deputy Prime Ministers. The new administration took office on 22 January 2016. </p>
          <p>
      The ruling coalition rapidly unravelled. In May 2016 the weekly newspaper 
      <i>Nacional</i>
       accused Karamarko of failing to declare a potential conflict of interest, and Most and Prime Minister Orešković demanded that the Deputy Prime Minister resign. The HDZ leader then challenged his rivals by calling for a vote of confidence in the Government, a proposal that the opposition SDP supported in the hope of triggering an early election that it expected to win.
    </p>
          <p>The Government lost the vote of confidence, held on 16 June 2016. The President announced that fresh legislative elections would be held on 11 September. On 16 July the SDP, the Hrvatska Narodna Stranka—Liberalni Demokrati (HNS—Croatian People’s Party—Liberal Democrats), the Hratska Stranka Umirovljenika (Croatian Pensioners’ Party) and the Hrvatska Seljačka Stranka (HSS—Croatian Peasants’ Party) signed an agreement reconstituting the Hrvatska Raste alliance as the Narodna Koalicija (People’s Coalition). On the following day the HDZ elected a former lawyer and member of the European Parliament, Andrej Plenković, as its new leader, replacing Karamarko, who had resigned on 21 June. A liberal, Plenković pledged to move the HDZ back towards the political centre ground.</p>
          <p>Plenković reversed the HDZ’s decline in popularity, and at the early elections an HDZ-led alliance won 61 of the 151 seats in the Assembly, while the SDP-led Narodna Koalicija secured 54 seats and Most received 13. On 6 October 2016 the HDZ and Most agreed on terms for the formation of a new coalition government. As Plenković had earlier been promised the support of the eight deputies representing national minorities, the five HSS deputies and those aligned with the Mayor of Zagreb, Bandić, his Government was assured of a healthy majority.</p>
          <p>The new Government’s greatest challenge related to an unfolding disaster at the heart of Croatia’s largest private company, Agrokor. Reports that Agrokor was in financial trouble emerged in January 2017. Following claims that the company had amassed debts of €6,000m., on 6 April the Assembly adopted the so-called `Lex Agrokor’, under which consultant Ante Ramljak was appointed emergency management commissioner. An agreement was finally reached between Agrokor and its creditors in June 2018. Agrokor’s business operations and assets were transferred to a new holding company, the Fortenova Group, in April 2019.</p>
          <p>The May 2019 European Parliament elections indicated a slight swing to the left. The ruling HDZ, campaigning as part of the centrist European People’s Party bloc, won four seats (the same as in the previous elections). The main opposition SDP increased its representation to three seats. The new Hrvatski Suverenisti (Croatian Sovereignist) coalition, formed by four right-wing parties, won one seat, as did the populist Živi Zid party. The representation of the Amsterdamska Koalicija (Amsterdam Coalition), comprising seven liberal and regional parties, including the Istarski Demokratski Sabor (Istrian Democratic Assembly) and the HSS, declined from two seats to one. The final seat was secured by independent candidate Mislav Kolakušić, a commercial court judge.</p>
          <p>The election results represented a disappointment for Prime Minister Plenković. A greater reverse for the HDZ followed towards the end of the year, when the SDP candidate, former Prime Minister Milanović, won the presidential election, displacing the centre-right incumbent, Grabar-Kitarović. Croatia’s first female President, her campaign was undermined by an anti-establishment rival, independent Miroslav Škoro, who split the right-wing vote, enabling Milanović to be placed first on 22 December 2019, with 29.6% of the votes cast. Grabar-Kitarović was placed second, with 26.7%, and Škoro third, with 24.5%. Grabar-Kitarović proved unable to reunite the right-wing vote in the second round, held on 5 January 2020, receiving 47.3% of votes cast, compared with 52.7% for Milanović. The participation rate in the second round of voting was 55.0%. </p>
          <p>Shortly afterwards, on 22 March 2020, an earthquake with a magnitude of 5.3 damaged the historic centre of Zagreb, including one of the spires of the city cathedral. Repair work was hampered by the nationwide measures that had been imposed earlier that month in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, restricting the movement of people. The Government began to ease the restrictive measures from 27 April.</p>
          <p>Meanwhile, amid concerns of a likely resurgence in COVID-19 cases later in the year, the Government reached an agreement with the opposition on the holding of early legislative elections; the Assembly was dissolved on 18 May 2020 and President Milanović scheduled the pre-term elections for 5 July. Contrary to expectations, the HDZ-led alliance was placed first, although it failed to win an outright majority, with 37.3% of the votes cast and 66 seats. The SDP-led Restart Koalicija (Restart Coalition) secured only 24.9% and 41 seats. A coalition led by the right-wing Domovinski Pokret Miroslava Škore (DPMŠ—Miroslav Škoro Homeland Movement), newly established by former presidential candidate Škoro, obtained 10.9% of the votes and 16 seats. A participation rate of only 46.3% (the lowest since the elections of 1990) was widely attributed to the pandemic.</p>
          <p>After his party’s electoral defeat, the SDP Chairman, Davor Bernardić, resigned. Plenković soon announced that he had already obtained the support of the 76 parliamentary deputies needed to form a new government—66 from his HDZ-led coalition, eight deputies representing national minorities and one each from the HNS and the Narodna Stranka—Reformisti (People’s Party—Reformists). Plenković’s new administration was approved by the Assembly on 23 July 2020.</p>
          <p>The new Government’s immediate challenge was related to a second severe earthquake, on 29 December 2020, this time with a magnitude of 6.4 and with its epicentre just outside Petrinja, a small town south of Zagreb. Seven people were killed and much of the centre of Petrinja was destroyed. Almost one year later, work on rebuilding the homes of most victims of the first earthquake had barely started.</p>
          <p>Despite the criticism, government parties performed reasonably well in the May 2021 local elections, although not in most of the large urban centres. HDZ candidates lost in Zagreb, Split and Rijeka, but the party secured the mayoralty in Osijek, the largest city in eastern Croatia. A left-wing activist, Tomislav Tomašević of the environmentalist Možemo!—Politička Platforma (We Can!-Political Platform), won the all-important Zagreb mayoralty, succeeding the city’s longstanding Mayor, Bandić, a political independent, who had died in February. The worst performing party in the local elections overall was the SDP. Unable to make advances in the HDZ’s rural electoral heartlands, it also increasingly lost in the cities to new environmentalist and leftist rivals.</p>
          <p>Political rivalries were put aside in July 2021 for celebrations to mark the joining of the two sides of the 2.4-km Pelješac bridge, connecting the southern enclave of Croatian territory around Dubrovnik to the rest of the country. Construction of the bridge by China Road and Bridge Corporation, with EU funding, had started in 2018. It opened in late July 2022, after which vehicles entering and leaving the Dubrovnik area no longer needed to cross a small part of Bosnia and Herzegovina around its coastal town of Neum.</p>
          <p>The first results of the 31 August 2021 census, released in January 2022, were received with shock in Croatia. The population had fallen by 9.5% over a decade, from 4.3m. at the census of 31 March 2011 to 3.9m., a total loss of almost 400,000 people. The census also confirmed that the population concentration of Croatia was tilting westwards. The decline was almost negligible in Zagreb and the western coastal cities of Dubrovnik, Zadar and Split, while in the easternmost county of Vukovar-Sirmium, the population had fallen by a dramatic 19%.</p>
          <p>The Russian Federation’s invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 caused anxiety in Croatia, as in much of the rest of the region. It also sparked political tensions, as the country’s outspoken President, Milanović, accused the West of having provoked Russia, and opposed Croatia offering Ukraine military assistance. In January 2023 Milanović stated that the West was `mad’ if it thought Russia could be defeated by means of conventional warfare. In April 2022 Prime Minister Plenković had condemned the President’s overall conduct as `vulgar and outrageous’.</p>
          <p>
      Much of 2022 was otherwise dominated by Croatia’s preparations to join the EU’s single currency area. After joining the EU in July 2013, its admission to the eurozone was formally approved by the EU in July 2022. The country started minting its own euros that month. On 1 January 2023 Croatia said farewell to the kuna, becoming the 20th member of the euro area and joining the passport-free Schengen zone. Despite official recognition of this being a landmark in the country’s process of European integration, ordinary people were generally less impressed, complaining that some traders 
      
      used the changeover to their advantage, by raising prices.
    </p>
     </gen-section>
</country-survey>