<?xml version="1.0"?>
<bibl-ref bibl-dtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" id="SL62092" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="62091" slsdocid="59267" slsdocty="bibl-section bibl-dtd"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
          
          <bibl-section id="LT.DIR.596" id-root="lt.dir" iso="lt" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="BIBL-REF" usage="casee">
               <heading>Bibliography</heading>
               <bibl-list>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Balkelis, T. 
          <i>War, Revolution, and Nation-Making in Lithuania, 1914-1923</i>
          . Oxford, Oxford University Press, 2018.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Balkelis, T. and Davoliūtė, V. (Eds). 
          <i>Population Displacement in Lithuania in the Twentieth Century: Experiences, Identities and Legacies</i>
          . Leiden, Brill, 2016.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Buttar, P. 
          <i>Centuries Will Not Suffice: A History of the Lithuanian Holocaust</i>
          . Stroud, Amberley Publishing, 2023.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Butterwick, R., and Pawlikowska, W. (Eds). 
          <i>Social and Cultural Relations in the Grand Duchy of Lithuania: Microhistories</i>
          . Abingdon, Routledge, 2019.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Davoliūtė, V. 
          <i>The Making and Breaking of Soviet Lithuania: Memory and Modernity in the Wake of War.</i>
           Abingdon, Routledge, 2013.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Eidintas, A. 
          <i>Lithuania in European Politics: The Years of the First Republic, 1918-1940</i>
          . Auckland, St Martin’s Press, 1999.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
                         <i>Antanas Smetona and His Lithuania: From the National Liberation Movement to an Authoritarian Regime (1893-1940)</i>
          . Boston, MA, Brill, 2015.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Janeliūnas, T. 
          <i>Foreign Policy Analysis of a Baltic State: Lithuania and `Grybauskaitė Doctrine’</i>
          . Abingdon, Routledge, 2021.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Janušauskienė, D. 
          <i>Post-Communist Democratisation in Lithuania: Elites, Parties, and Youth Political Organisations 1988-2001</i>
          . Amsterdam, Rodopi, 2011.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Lane, T. 
          <i>Lithuania: Stepping Westward</i>
          . London, Routledge, 2001.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Liekis, Š. 
          <i>A State Within a State?: Jewish Autonomy in Lithuania 1918-1925.</i>
           Vilnius, Versus Aureus, 2003.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Norkus, Z. (trans. Strunga, A.). 
          <i>An Unproclaimed Empire: The Grand Duchy of Lithuania, from the Viewpoint of Comparative Historical Sociology of Empires.</i>
           Abingdon, Routledge, 2018.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Norris, H. T. 
          <i>Islam in the Baltic: Europe's Early Muslim Community.</i>
           London, Tauris Academic Studies, 2009.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Safronovas, V. 
          <i>The Creation of National Spaces in a Pluricultural Region: The Case of Prussian Lithuania</i>
          . Boston, MA, Academic Studies Press, 2016.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Sapoka, M. 
          <i>Warfare, Loyalty and Rebellion: The Grand Duchy of Lithuania and the Great Northern War, 1709-17.</i>
           New York, Routledge, 2018.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Senn, A. 
          <i>Lithuania Awakening</i>
          . Los Angeles, CA, University of California Press, 1990.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
                         <i>Lithuania 1940: Revolution From Above</i>
          . Amsterdam, Rodopi, 2007.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Sklarew, M. 
          <i>A Survivor Named Trauma: Holocaust Memory in Lithuania</i>
          . Albany, NY, State University of New York Press, 2020.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Staliūnas, D. 
          <i>Enemies for a Day: Antisemitism and Anti-Jewish Violence in Lithuania under the Tsars</i>
          . Budapest, Central European University Press, 2014.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Sužiedėlis, S. 
          <i>Historical Dictionary of Lithuania</i>
          . 2nd edn, Lanham, MD, Scarecrow Press, 2011.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Vardys, V. S., Sedaitis, J. 
          <i>Lithuania: The Rebel Nation</i>
          . Abingdon, Routledge, 2019.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Wagner-Rundell, B. 
          <i>Common Wealth, Common Good: The Politics of Virtue in Early Modern Poland-Lithuania</i>
          . Oxford, Oxford University Press, 2015.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Weeks, T. R. 
          <i>Vilnius Between Nations, 1795-2000</i>
          . DeKalb, IL, NIU Press, 2015.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Zilinskiene, L. and Ilic, M. 
          <i>Soviet and Post-Soviet Lithuania—Generational Experiences</i>
          . Abingdon, Routledge, 2021.
        </bibl-entry>
               </bibl-list>
          </bibl-section>
     </bibl-ref>
