<?xml version="1.0"?>
<directory id="LT.DIR" id-root="lt" iso="lt" name-markup-type="STANDARD" original-filename="ltudir.rtf" print-style="PGWIDTH" usage="ewyb casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <dir-section id="LT.DIR.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
          <heading>Directory</heading>
          <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb casee">Lithuania</alt-heading>
          <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb casee">Directory</alt-heading>
          <dir-sectref dir-sectiondtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" id="SL62052" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="62051" slsdocid="59294" slsdocty="dir-section dir-sectiondtd"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
               
               <dir-section id="LT.DIR.2" id-root="lt.dir" iso="lt" sect-type="constitution" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="casee">
                    <heading>The Constitution</heading>
                    <p id="LT.DIR.3">The Constitution was approved in a national referendum on 25 October 1992 and adopted by the Seimas (Parliament) on 6 November. The following is a summary of its main provisions:</p>
                    <dir-section id="LT.DIR.4" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                         <heading>The State</heading>
                         <p id="LT.DIR.5">The Republic of Lithuania is an independent and democratic republic; its sovereignty is vested in the people, who exercise their supreme power either directly or through their democratically elected representatives. The powers of the State are exercised by the Seimas (Parliament), the President of the Republic, the Government and the Judiciary. The most significant issues concerning the State and the people are decided by referendum.</p>
                         <p id="LT.DIR.6">The territory of the republic is integral. Citizenship is acquired by birth or on other grounds determined by law. With certain exceptions established by law, no person may be a citizen of Lithuania and of another state at the same time. Lithuanian is the state language.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="LT.DIR.7" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                         <heading>The Individual and the State</heading>
                         <p id="LT.DIR.8">The rights and freedoms of individuals are inviolable. Property is inviolable, and the rights of ownership are protected by law. Freedom of thought, conscience and religion are guaranteed. All persons are equal before the law. No one may be discriminated against on the basis of sex, race, nationality, language, origin, social status, religion or opinion. Citizens may choose their place of residence in Lithuania freely, and may leave the country at their own will. Citizens are guaranteed the right to form societies, political parties and associ­ations. Citizens who belong to ethnic communities have the right to foster their language, culture and customs.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="LT.DIR.9" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                         <heading>Society and the State</heading>
                         <p id="LT.DIR.10">The family is the basis of society and the State. Education is compulsory until the age of 16. Education at state and local government institutions is free of charge at all levels. State and local government establishments of education are secular, although, at the request of parents, they may offer classes in religious instruction. The State recognizes traditional Lithuanian and other churches and religious organizations, but there is no state religion. Censorship of mass media is prohibited. Ethnic communities may independently administer the affairs of their ethnic culture, education, organizations, etc. The State supports ethnic communities.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="LT.DIR.11" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                         <heading>National Economy and Labour</heading>
                         <p id="LT.DIR.12">Lithuania’s economy is based on the right to private ownership and freedom of individual economic activity. Every person may freely choose an occupation, and has the right to adequate, safe and healthy working conditions, adequate compensation for work, and social security in the event of unemployment. Trade unions may be freely established and may function independently. Employees have the right to strike in order to protect their economic and social interests. The State guarantees the right of citizens to old-age and disability pensions, as well as to social assistance in the event of unemployment, sickness, widowhood, etc.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="LT.DIR.13" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                         <heading>The Seimas</heading>
                         <p id="LT.DIR.14">Legislative power rests with the Seimas. It comprises 141 members, elected for a four-year term on the basis of universal, equal and direct suffrage by secret ballot. Any citizen who has attained 25 years of age may be a candidate for the Seimas. Members of the Seimas may not be found criminally responsible, may not be arrested, and may not be subjected to any other restrictions of personal freedom, without the consent of the Seimas. The Seimas convenes for two regular four-month sessions every year.</p>
                         <p id="LT.DIR.15">The Seimas considers and enacts amendments to the Constitution; enacts laws; adopts resolutions for the organization of referendums; announces presidential elections; approves or rejects the candidature of the Prime Minister, as proposed by the President of the Republic; establishes or abolishes government ministries, upon the recommendation of the Government; supervises the activities of the Government, with the power to express a vote of no confidence in the Prime Minister or individual ministers; appoints judges to the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court; approves the state budget and supervises the implementation thereof; establishes state taxes and other obligatory payments; ratifies or denounces international treaties whereto the Republic is a party, and considers other issues of foreign policy; establishes administrative divisions of the republic; issues acts of amnesty; and imposes direct administration and martial law, declares states of emergency, announces mobilization, and adopts decisions to use the armed forces.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="LT.DIR.16" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                         <heading>The President of the Republic</heading>
                         <p id="LT.DIR.17">The President of the Republic is the Head of State. Any Lithuanian citizen by birth, who has lived in Lithuania for at least the three preceding years, who has reached 40 years of age and who is eligible for election to the Seimas, may be elected President of the Republic. The President is elected by the citizens of the republic, on the basis of universal, equal and direct suffrage by secret ballot, for a term of five years. No person may be elected to the office for more than two consecutive terms.</p>
                         <p id="LT.DIR.18">The President resolves basic issues of foreign policy and, in conjunction with the Government, implements foreign policy; signs international treaties and submits them to the Seimas for ratification; appoints or recalls, upon the recommendation of the Government, diplomatic representatives of Lithuania in foreign states and international organizations; appoints, upon the approval of the Seimas, the Prime Minister, and charges him or her with forming the Government, and approves its composition; removes, upon the approval of the Seimas, the Prime Minister from office; appoints or dismisses individual ministers, upon the recommendation of the Prime Minister; and appoints or dismisses, upon the approval of the Seimas, the Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces and the head of the Security Service.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="LT.DIR.19" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                         <heading>The Government</heading>
                         <p id="LT.DIR.20">Executive power is held by the Government of the Republic (Council of Ministers), which consists of the Prime Minister and other ministers. The Prime Minister is appointed and dismissed by the President of the Republic, with the approval of the Seimas. Ministers are appointed by the President, on the nomination of the Prime Minister.</p>
                         <p id="LT.DIR.21">The Government administers the affairs of the country, protects the inviolability of the territory of Lithuania, and ensures state security and public order; implements laws and resolutions of the Seimas as well as presidential decrees; co-ordinates the activities of the ministries and other governmental institutions; prepares the draft state budget and submits it to the Seimas; executes the state budget and reports to the Seimas on its fulfilment; drafts legislative proposals and submits them to the Seimas for consideration; and establishes and maintains diplomatic representation with foreign countries and international organizations.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="LT.DIR.22" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                         <heading>Judicial System</heading>
                         <p id="LT.DIR.23">
            The judicial system is independent of the authority of the legislative and executive branches of government. It consists of a 
            <xr pageref="N" ref="LT.DIR.202">Constitutional Court</xr>
            , a 
            <xr pageref="N" ref="LT.DIR.204">Supreme Court</xr>
            , a 
            <xr pageref="N" ref="LT.DIR.203">Court of Appeal</xr>
            , and district and local courts (for details, see section on Judicial System below).
          </p>
                    </dir-section>
               </dir-section>
          </dir-sectref>
          </dir-section>
     </directory>