<?xml version="1.0"?>
<directory id="BA.DIR" id-root="ba" iso="ba" name-markup-type="STANDARD" original-filename="bihdir1.rtf" print-style="PGWIDTH" usage="ewyb casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb casee">Bosnia and Herzegovina</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb casee">Directory</alt-heading>
     <dir-section id="BA.DIR.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
          <heading>Directory</heading>
          <dir-sectref dir-sectiondtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" id="SL289496" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="289495" slsdocid="287774" slsdocty="dir-section dir-sectiondtd"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
               
               <dir-section id="BA.DIR.2" id-root="ba.dir" iso="ba" sect-type="constitution" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="casee">
                    <heading>The Constitution</heading>
                    <p id="BA.DIR.3">The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina was Annexe 4 to the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina (known as the Dayton accords, after the town in Ohio, USA, where negotiations took place in November 1995), signed in Paris, France, on 14 December 1995.</p>
                    <dir-section id="BA.DIR.11075163371" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF">
                         <heading>The Entities</heading>
                         <p id="BA.DIR.6346354213">The bulk of Bosnia and Herzegovina comprises two entities: the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska, each of which has its own Government and institutions. The north-eastern town of Brčko is under joint Serb, Croat and Bosniak authority, separate from the two entities.</p>
                         <dir-section id="BA.DIR.11075164441" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF">
                              <heading>The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina</heading>
                              <p>The Federation had been formed on 31 March 1994 on those territories controlled by the `Croat Republic of Herzeg-Bosna' and by the Government of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Constitution provides for a balance of powers between Bosniak and Croat elements, with significant powers devolved to each of ten constituent cantons. The Prime Minister has a greater executive role than the President; these two posts rotate between the two ethnic groups. There are also two Vice-Presidents. The legislature is bicameral, comprising a 98-member Predstavnički Dom Federacije/Zastupnički Dom Federacije (Federation House of Representatives), which is directly elected for a four-year term, and a Dom Naroda Federacije (Federation House of Peoples), comprising (since 2 October 2022) 23 Bosniak, 23 Croat, 23 Serb and 11 other deputies, who are elected by the cantonal assemblies in proportion to the ethnic structure of the population.</p>
                         </dir-section>
                         <dir-section id="BA.DIR.11075164791" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF">
                              <heading>Republika Srpska</heading>
                              <p>
              The `Republika Srpska of Bosnia and Herzegovina' was proclaimed by the Serb deputies of the Skupština Republike Bosne i Hercegovine (Assembly of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina) on 9 January 1992, and subsequently comprised those territories within Bosnia and Herzegovina controlled by Serb forces. (The name of the polity was abbreviated to Republika Srpska in August 1992.) Its Constitution provides for an executive President (with two Vice-Presidents), a Government headed by a Prime Minister and the Narodna Skupština Republike Srpske (Republika Srpska People’s Assembly). Under constitutional amendments adopted in 2002, a 28-member Vijeće Naroda (Council of Peoples), comprising eight Bosniak, eight Croat, eight Serb and four other delegates, was established within the entity legislature; its members are elected by the deputies of the People’s Assembly and are responsible, 
              <i>inter alia</i>
              , for electing the entity's representatives to the upper chamber of the state legislature.
            </p>
                         </dir-section>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="BA.DIR.11075166291" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF">
                         <heading>The High Representative of the International Community</heading>
                         <p>The Office of a High Representative of the International Community, established by the Dayton Accords (and which office was subsequently extended additionally to comprise the role of Special Representative of the European Union—EU—although these two posts were separated in late 2011), is responsible for the civilian implementation of the terms of the peace settlement, holding the power to compel the entity Governments to comply with the terms of the peace agreement and the state Constitution and the authority to dismiss members of the entity Governments and organizations who fail to uphold the terms of the peace agreement.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="BA.DIR.8" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
                         <heading>State Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina</heading>
                         <p id="BA.DIR.9">The Preamble declares the basic, democratic principles of the country and its conformity with the principles of international law. The Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs are declared to be the constituent peoples (along with others) of Bosnia and Herzegovina.</p>
                         <p id="BA.DIR.10">The continuity of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the former Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, within its existing international boundaries, is affirmed. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a democratic state, consisting of two Entities, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska. The capital of the country, and of both Entities, is Sarajevo (although, in practice, most institutions and the Government of Republika Srpska are located in Banja Luka, while the government ministries of the Federation are shared between Sarajevo and Mostar). Citizenship is to exist both for Bosnia and Herzegovina and for the Entities.</p>
                         <p id="BA.DIR.12">The state institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are responsible for foreign policy (including trade and customs), overall financial policy, immigration and refugee issues, international and inter-entity law enforcement, common and international communications facilities, inter-entity transportation, and air-traffic control. Any governmental functions or powers not reserved to the state institutions by this Constitution are reserved to the Entities, unless additional responsibilities are agreed between the Entities or as provided for in the General Framework Agreement. The Entities may establish special, parallel relations with neighbouring states, provided this is consistent with the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina has primacy over any inconsistent constitutional or legal provisions of the Entities.</p>
                         <dir-section id="BA.DIR.13" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="casee">
                              <heading>The Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina</heading>
                              <p id="BA.DIR.14">Bosnia and Herzegovina has a bicameral legislature, the Parlamentarna Skupština Bosne i Hercegovine (Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina). It consists of the Dom Naroda (House of Peoples) and the Predstavnički Dom/Zastupnički Dom (House of Representatives). The House of Peoples comprises 15 Members, five each from the Bosniaks, the Croats and the Serbs, who are elected for a term of four years. The Bosniak and Croat Delegates are selected by, respectively, the Bosniak and Croat Delegates to the Federation House of Representatives, and the Serb Delegates by the Council of Peoples of the Republika Srpska People’s Assembly.</p>
                              <p id="BA.DIR.15">The House of Representatives consists of 42 Members, of whom two-thirds are directly elected from the territory of the Federation and one-third from the territory of Republika Srpska. Deputies are elected for a term of four years.</p>
                              <p id="BA.DIR.16">Each chamber of the Parliamentary Assembly rotates its chairmanship between three members.</p>
                         </dir-section>
                         <dir-section id="BA.DIR.17" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="casee">
                              <heading>The State Presidency</heading>
                              <p id="BA.DIR.18">The office of the head of state consists of three Members: one Bosniak and one Croat, each directly elected from the Federation; and one Serb, directly elected from Republika Srpska. Members are elected for a term of four years and are restricted to two consecutive terms. Chairmanship of the Presidency is rotated between the Members every eight months. A Presidency decision, if declared to be destructive of a vital interest of an Entity, can be vetoed by a two-thirds’ majority in the relevant body: by the Republika Srpska People’s Assembly if the declaration were made by the Serb Member; or by the Bosniak or Croat Delegates in the Federation House of Peoples if the declaration was made by, respectively, the Bosniak or Croat Members.</p>
                              <p id="BA.DIR.19">The Chairman of the Council of Ministers is nominated by the Presidency and confirmed in office by the House of Representatives. The Chairman of the Council of Ministers is required to be from a different constituent people than the Chairman of the Presidency. Other Ministers and Deputy Ministers are nominated by the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, and approved by the House of Representatives. No more than two-thirds of Ministers are to be from the territory of the Federation, and Deputy Ministers are to be from a different constituent people to their Minister.</p>
                         </dir-section>
                         <dir-section id="BA.DIR.21" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="casee">
                              <heading>Other Institutions and Provisions</heading>
                              <p id="BA.DIR.22">The Constitutional Court has nine members, of which four are selected by the Federation House of Representatives and two by the Republika Srpska People’s Assembly. The three remaining judges, at least initially, are to be selected by the President of the European Court of Human Rights. Judges usually serve until they are 70 years of age. The decisions of the Court are final and binding.</p>
                              <p id="BA.DIR.24">Anyone convicted or indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia is forbidden from standing for or holding public office. Amendments to the Constitution need a two-thirds' majority of those present and voting in the House of Representatives.</p>
                         </dir-section>
                    </dir-section>
               </dir-section>
          </dir-sectref>
          </dir-section>
     </directory>