<?xml version="1.0"?>
<chronology id="PL.CHRON" id-root="pl" original-filename="unknown" region="CASEE" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>Chronology</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Poland</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Chronology</alt-heading>
     <chron-list>
          <chron-entry from-date="0966-01-01" to-date="0966-12-31">
               <chron-head>966</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The first historical ruler of Poland, Prince Mieszko I, converted to Latin Christianity.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1320-01-01" to-date="1320-12-31">
               <chron-head>1320</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Lidisław I was crowned King of a reunited Poland.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1386-01-01" to-date="1386-12-31">
               <chron-head>1386</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Grand Duke of Lithuania became King, as Władysław II, by marriage to Jadwiga of Poland; they founded the Jagiellonian dynasty (1386-1572) and established a personal union of Poland with Lithuania.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1493-01-01" to-date="1493-12-31">
               <chron-head>1493</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A two-chamber Sejm (parliament) was established.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1569-01-01" to-date="1569-12-31">
               <chron-head>1569</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Under Sigismund II a permanent union with Lithuania was established, by the Union of Lublin, which was to last until the final dismemberment of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth in 1795.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1764-01-01" to-date="1764-12-31">
               <chron-head>1764</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Election of Stanisław II, who ruled until 1795.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1772-01-01" to-date="1772-12-31">
               <chron-head>1772</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The First Partition of Poland, between Russia, Prussia and Austria, took place.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1791-01-01" to-date="1791-12-31">
               <chron-head>1791</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Stanisław II created Europe’s first modern constitution.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1793-01-01" to-date="1793-12-31">
               <chron-head>1793</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Second Partition of Poland.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1795-01-01" to-date="1795-12-31">
               <chron-head>1795</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Third Partition extinguished the Polish state.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1807-01-01" to-date="1807-12-31">
               <chron-head>1807</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Grand Duchy of Warsaw was established by Napoleon I of France.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1815-01-01" to-date="1815-12-31">
               <chron-head>1815</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Congress Kingdom of Poland’ was formed under Russian patronage.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1905-01-01" to-date="1905-12-31">
               <chron-head>1905-07</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Revolution in Russian Poland.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1915-01-01" to-date="1915-12-31">
               <chron-head>1915</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Russian occupation was ended by German victory on the eastern front in the First World War.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1916-01-01" to-date="1916-12-31">
               <chron-head>1916</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Restoration of an independent’ Kingdom of Poland by Germany.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1918-06-03">
               <chron-head>3 June 1918</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Entente Governments recognized the principle of Polish independence.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1918-11-11">
               <chron-head>11 November 1918</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Józef Piłsudski assumed power in Warsaw; Poland was declared an independent republic.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1919-06-28">
               <chron-head>28 June 1919</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Treaty of Versailles recognized Polish independence.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1920-08-13" to-date="1920-08-19">
               <chron-head>13-19 August 1920</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Soviet forces were defeated at the Battle of Warsaw.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1921-03-18">
               <chron-head>18 March 1921</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Treaty of Rīga was signed by Poland, Ukraine and Soviet Russia, formally concluding the Soviet-Polish war and defining the frontiers in the region.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1922-01-01" to-date="1922-12-31">
               <chron-head>1922</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Stanisław Wojciechowski was elected head of state.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1926-05-12">
               <chron-head>12 May 1926</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Piłsudski seized power in a coup.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1932-01-25">
               <chron-head>25 January 1932</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A non-aggression pact was signed with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1934-01-26">
               <chron-head>26 January 1934</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A non-aggression pact was signed with Germany.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1935-03-23">
               <chron-head>23 March 1935</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Constitution was enacted.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1935-05-12">
               <chron-head>12 May 1935</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Death of Piłsudski.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1939-03-31">
               <chron-head>31 March 1939</chron-head>
               <chron-text>France and the United Kingdom announced guarantees of Poland’s independence, in response to German territorial demands.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1939-08-23">
               <chron-head>23 August 1939</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Nazi-Soviet Pact was signed, including a secret agreement between the USSR and Germany to partition Poland into their respective spheres of influence’.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1939-09-01">
               <chron-head>1 September 1939</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Germany invaded Poland, thereby starting the Second World War.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1939-09-17">
               <chron-head>17 September 1939</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The USSR invaded Poland.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1939-09-30">
               <chron-head>30 September 1939</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A Government-in-Exile was formed in Paris, France, under Gen. Władysław Sikorski, moving to the UK in 1940.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1941-06-22">
               <chron-head>22 June 1941</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Germany invaded the USSR; Poland was occupied by Nazi forces.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1942-01-05">
               <chron-head>5 January 1942</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Polska Partia Robotnicza (PPR—Polish Workers’ Party) was founded.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1943-04-01" to-date="1943-04-30">
               <chron-head>April 1943</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Warsaw Ghetto uprising of Jewish resistance was suppressed by German troops.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1943-04-25">
               <chron-head>25 April 1943</chron-head>
               <chron-text>German investigators discovered, at Katyn in the USSR, the bodies of 4,000 Polish officers, who had been murdered by Soviet secret police in 1940 (the USSR only admitted its responsibility in April 1990).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1943-07-04">
               <chron-head>4 July 1943</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Gen. Sikorski, Prime Minister of the Government-in-Exile, died in an air crash.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1944-07-23">
               <chron-head>23 July 1944</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Polski Komitet Wyzwolenia Narodowego (PKWN—Polish Committee of National Liberation) was established under Soviet auspices.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1944-08-01" to-date="1944-10-02">
               <chron-head>1 August-2 October 1944</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Warsaw Rising was eventually suppressed by German troops.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1945-02-01" to-date="1945-02-28">
               <chron-head>February 1945</chron-head>
               <chron-text>German forces withdrew from Warsaw. The British, Soviet and US leaders met in the Crimean town of Yalta: the Curzon line’ was agreed as Poland’s eastern border.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1945-04-21">
               <chron-head>21 April 1945</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A Soviet-Polish Treaty of Friendship was signed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1945-07-06">
               <chron-head>6 July 1945</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The USA and the UK formally recognized the Provisional Government of National Unity’, which was dominated by members of the Soviet-backed PKWN, but included Stanisław Mikołajczyk and others from the Government-in-Exile.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1945-07-17" to-date="1945-08-02">
               <chron-head>17 July-2 August 1945</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Potsdam Conference: the Allies agreed to give former German territories east of the Oder-Neisse line to Poland.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1947-01-19">
               <chron-head>19 January 1947</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Elections to the parliament were won by the Democratic Bloc, a grouping dominated by the PPR and led by Władysław Gomułka; the UK and the USA complained that the elections did not meet the requirements agreed at Yalta.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1947-02-06">
               <chron-head>6 February 1947</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The People’s Republic of Poland was declared; Bolesław Bierut took office as President.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1947-10-01" to-date="1947-10-31">
               <chron-head>October 1947</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Mikołajczyk fled to London, UK.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1948-09-01" to-date="1948-09-30">
               <chron-head>September 1948</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Gomułka was dismissed as PPR leader; in 1949 he was arrested, accused of rightist and nationalist deviations’.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1948-12-01" to-date="1948-12-31">
               <chron-head>December 1948</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The founding congress of the Polska Zjednoczona Partia Robotnicza (PZPR—Polish United Workers’ Party), which was to succeed the PPR, was held; Bierut was appointed party First Secretary.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1952-07-22">
               <chron-head>22 July 1952</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Soviet-style Constitution was adopted.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1954-01-01" to-date="1954-12-31">
               <chron-head>1954</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Bierut was succeeded by Józef Cyrankiewicz as Chairman of the Council of Ministers.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1955-05-14">
               <chron-head>14 May 1955</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Treaty of Warsaw founded the Soviet bloc military organization known as the Warsaw Pact.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1956-06-28" to-date="1956-06-29">
               <chron-head>28-29 June 1956</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Seventy-four people died in riots in Poznań protesting against food price rises.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1956-10-01" to-date="1956-10-31">
               <chron-head>October 1956</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Gomułka was appointed First Secretary and began to introduce some political liberalization.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1968-04-01" to-date="1968-04-30">
               <chron-head>April 1968</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Marshal Marian Spychalski was appointed head of state.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1970-12-01" to-date="1970-12-31">
               <chron-head>December 1970</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Gomułka and Spychalski resigned after workers were killed when police suppressed strikes and protests in the Baltic ports; Piotr Jaroszewicz replaced Cyrankiewicz (who became head of state) as Chairman of the Council of Ministers; Edward Gierek was appointed First Secretary.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1970-12-07">
               <chron-head>7 December 1970</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A treaty was signed by Poland and the Federal Republic of Germany (West Germany), confirming the post-1945 Polish western border.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1976-09-01" to-date="1976-09-30">
               <chron-head>September 1976</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The civil society group Komitet Obrony Robotników (Workers’ Defence Committee) was formed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1978-10-16">
               <chron-head>16 October 1978</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Cardinal Karol Wojtyła, Archbishop of Kraków, was elected head of the Catholic Church as Pope John Paul II.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1980-02-01" to-date="1980-02-28">
               <chron-head>February 1980</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Jaroszewicz was replaced as Chairman of the Council of Ministers by Edward Babiuch.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1980-07-01" to-date="1980-07-31">
               <chron-head>July 1980</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Rises in food prices led to strikes and workers’ protests.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1980-08-14">
               <chron-head>14 August 1980</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Some 17,000 workers at the Lenin Shipyards in Gdańsk went on strike; the strike spread to Szczecin one week later and involved over 150,000 workers.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1980-08-24">
               <chron-head>24 August 1980</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Babiuch resigned and was replaced by Józef Pińkowski as Chairman of the Council of Ministers.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1980-08-31">
               <chron-head>31 August 1980</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following negotiations with Lech Wałęsa and other union delegates, the Government agreed to the unions’ demands, including the right to form free trade unions and the right to strike.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1980-09-05">
               <chron-head>5 September 1980</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Gierek was replaced as First Secretary by Stanisław Kania.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1980-09-17">
               <chron-head>17 September 1980</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The independent trade union, Solidarność (Solidarity), was formed; it was officially recognized on 10 November.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1981-02-10" to-date="1981-02-11">
               <chron-head>10-11 February 1981</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Pińkowski was replaced as Chairman of the Council of Ministers by Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski. Jaruzelski replaced Kania as party First Secretary in October.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1981-12-13">
               <chron-head>13 December 1981</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Jaruzelski declared martial law. A Military Council of National Salvation was established; Wałęsa and other Solidarność activists were arrested and imprisoned.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1982-12-13">
               <chron-head>13 December 1982</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Martial law was suspended. Wałęsa had been released from gaol the previous month.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1983-07-22">
               <chron-head>22 July 1983</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Martial law was formally lifted.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1983-10-05">
               <chron-head>5 October 1983</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Wałęsa was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1984-10-01" to-date="1984-10-31">
               <chron-head>October 1984</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Fr Jerzy Popiełuszko, a pro-Solidarność priest, was murdered by security forces.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1985-10-01" to-date="1985-10-31">
               <chron-head>October 1985</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Some multi-candidate ballots were allowed in legislative elections; Solidarność urged a boycott and, later, challenged the results.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1985-11-06">
               <chron-head>6 November 1985</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Jaruzelski resigned as Chairman of the Council of Ministers, becoming President of the Council of State (head of state); he was succeeded as premier by Prof. Zbigniew Messner.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1988-09-19">
               <chron-head>19 September 1988</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Messner’s Government resigned; Dr Mieczysław Rakowski became Chairman of a more reformist Council of Ministers.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1989-02-06">
               <chron-head>6 February 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Negotiations between the Government and opposition leaders, headed by Wałęsa, opened in Warsaw. Following two months of talks, a negotiated agreement was reached: Solidarność was to be re-legalized; partly free elections were to be held; and economic reforms were promised. Two days later appropriate constitutional amendments were adopted, including the creation of a new, bicameral Zgromadzenie Narodowe (National Assembly); 65% of seats in the lower chamber (Sejm—Assembly) were to be reserved for communists.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1989-05-17">
               <chron-head>17 May 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Full legal status was granted to the Catholic Church (diplomatic relations with the Holy See were restored in July) and freedom of conscience guaranteed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1989-06-01" to-date="1989-06-30">
               <chron-head>June 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Elections to the National Assembly took place: Solidarność won 99% of the freely elected seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1989-07-28" to-date="1989-07-29">
               <chron-head>28-29 July 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Jaruzelski, having been narrowly elected President on 19 July, resigned from all party posts; he was replaced as First Secretary by Rakowski.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1989-08-01" to-date="1989-08-31">
               <chron-head>August 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Solidarność having refused a coalition with the communists, Lt-Gen. Czesław Kiszczak was chosen as premier, but he failed to form a government. President Jaruzelski then accepted Solidarność’s earlier proposal of a coalition with two other parties; Tadeusz Mazowiecki was asked to lead a new, multi-party administration.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1989-12-29" to-date="1989-12-30">
               <chron-head>29-30 December 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The National Assembly approved amendments to the Constitution, including an end to the PZPR’s monopoly of power. Finance minister Leszek Balcerowicz’s plan for radical economic reforms was approved by the lower chamber.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1990-11-01" to-date="1990-11-30">
               <chron-head>November 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Poland’s western border was confirmed by the signature of a treaty with the reunified Germany.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1990-11-25">
               <chron-head>25 November 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a presidential election, Wałęsa received some 43% of the votes cast; Stanisław Tymiński was second candidate, followed by premier Mazowiecki, whose Government resigned the next day.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1990-12-09">
               <chron-head>9 December 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Wałęsa won the second round of the presidential election, with 74% of the votes cast.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1991-01-01" to-date="1991-01-31">
               <chron-head>January 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Jan Bielecki and his proposed Government were approved by the parliament. The Citizens’ Parliamentary Club (the group of Solidarność deputies in the National Assembly) was split by the formation of Unia Demokratyczna (UD—Democratic Union).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-04-04">
               <chron-head>4 April 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The first of the 50,000 Soviet troops remaining in Poland were withdrawn.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-10-27">
               <chron-head>27 October 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Only 43.2% of the electorate participated in Poland’s first fully free elections to the Senat (Senate—the upper legislative chamber) and the Assembly (lower chamber); a total of 29 parties won representation in the Assembly: the largest, with 62 of the 460 seats (12.3% of the votes cast), being the UD; the Sojusz Lewicy Demokratycznej (SLD—Democratic Left Alliance), led by Socjaldemokracja Rzeczypospolitej Polskiej (SdRP—Social Democracy of the Republic of Poland, as the PZPR was known from 1990), won 60 seats (11.9%).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1991-12-01" to-date="1991-12-31">
               <chron-head>December 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Jan Olszewski was appointed Chairman of the Council of Ministers (Prime Minister).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1992-06-01" to-date="1992-06-30">
               <chron-head>July 1992</chron-head>
               <chron-text>After motion of no confidence in the Government was passed by the Assembly in June, Hanna Suchocka of the UD became Prime Minister and formed a coalition Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1992-12-08">
               <chron-head>8 December 1992</chron-head>
               <chron-text>An interim Constitution, the Small Constitution’, entered into force.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1993-05-28">
               <chron-head>28 May 1993</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly approved a vote of no confi­dence in the Government; however, Wałęsa refused to accept the Prime Minister’s resignation and dissolved parliament.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1993-09-19">
               <chron-head>19 September 1993</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A general election took place, under a new electoral law; the SLD and Polskie Stronnictwo Ludowe (PSL—the Polish People’s Party), also dominated by former communists, obtained the most votes (20.4% and 15.4%, respectively) and between them took 303 of the 406 seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1993-10-01" to-date="1993-10-31">
               <chron-head>October 1993</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The PSL leader, Waldemar Pawlak, was appointed Prime Minister and formed a Government mainly composed of SLD and PSL members.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1994-04-01" to-date="1994-04-30">
               <chron-head>April 1994</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Poland formally applied for membership of the European Union (EU).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1995-02-01" to-date="1995-02-28">
               <chron-head>February 1995</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Relations between Wałęsa and the Government deteriorated as the former demanded Pawlak’s resignation. Józef Oleksy of the SLD, the Marshal of the Assembly and a former communist minister, was appointed premier and formed a new Government in early March.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1995-11-05" to-date="1995-11-19">
               <chron-head>5 and 19 November 1995</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The first round of the presidential election was contested by 13 candidates; Aleksander Kwaśniewski, Chairman of the SdRP, obtained 35.1% of the votes cast, and Wałęsa 33.1%. In the second round of voting Kwaśniewski won 51.7% of the votes cast and Wałęsa 48.3%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1995-12-23">
               <chron-head>23 December 1995</chron-head>
               <chron-text>After the Supreme Court dismissed claims of electoral malpractice against him by supporters of Wałęsa, Aleksander Kwaśniewski took office as President.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1996-01-01" to-date="1996-01-31">
               <chron-head>January 1996</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Oleksy resigned as Prime Minister, to be elected leader of the SdRP, in succession to Kwaśniewski. The President appointed Włodzimierz Cimoszewicz, a former Minister of Justice, as premier.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1997-03-06">
               <chron-head>6 March 1997</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The announcement that 3,000 Gdańsk shipyard workers were to lose their jobs followed months of industrial unrest and provoked demonstrations and pickets of government offices throughout the country.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1997-04-02">
               <chron-head>2 April 1997</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The National Assembly approved a new Constitution, which was endorsed in May by 52.7% of the votes cast in a national referendum. The Constitution took effect on 17 October.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1997-09-21">
               <chron-head>21 September 1997</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In the general election Akcja Wyborcza Solidarność (AWS—Solidarity Electoral Action), a coalition comprising 36 parties, emerged as the strongest grouping, securing 201 seats in the Assembly and 51 in the Senate; the SLD retained 164 seats in the Assembly and 28 in the Senate, while the PSL retained only 27 and three, respectively; the third party, therefore, was Unia Wolności (UW—the Freedom Union), led by Balcerowicz, with 60 deputies and eight senators.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1997-10-15">
               <chron-head>15 October 1997</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Jerzy Buzek of Solidarność was nominated as Prime Minister. He agreed a coalition with the UW later in the month.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1998-01-08">
               <chron-head>8 January 1998</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The National Assembly ratified the Concordat, an agreement governing relations between the state and the Roman Catholic Church, which had been reached in 1993, but approval of which had been repeatedly delayed by the previous SLD-led coalition Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1999-03-12">
               <chron-head>12 March 1999</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Poland was formally admitted to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1999-12-01" to-date="1999-12-31">
               <chron-head>December 1999</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Solidarność announced that it was to withdraw from politics; the movement’s voting rights within the AWS were transferred to the Ruch Społeczny Akcja Wyborcza Solidarność (RS AWS—Social Movement of Solidarity Election Action), led by Buzek.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2000-06-08">
               <chron-head>8 June 2000</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Negotiations aimed at maintaining the governing coalition ended in failure, and the withdrawal of the UW from the Government was formalized; Buzek subsequently formed a minority Government comprising AWS members.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2000-10-08">
               <chron-head>8 October 2000</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Kwaśniewski was re-elected to the presi­dency, receiving 53.9% of the votes cast.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2001-09-23">
               <chron-head>23 September 2001</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In legislative elections Akcja Wyborcza Solidarność Prawicy (AWSP—Solidarity Electoral Action of the Right, as the AWS had been restyled in May) failed to win any seats in the Assembly; instead, a leftist coalition of the SLD and Unia Pracy (Union of Labour—UP) secured the greatest number of seats, winning 75 of the 100 seats in the Senate and 216 of the 460 seats in the Assembly.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2001-10-09">
               <chron-head>9 October 2001</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A coalition agreement was signed by the SLD, the UP and the PSL (which had obtained 44 seats in the Assembly), to secure an overall majority in the lower house. A new Government was sworn in on 19 October, led by Leszek Miller.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2003-03-01">
               <chron-head>1 March 2003</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Miller expelled the PSL from the Government, after it supported opposition deputies in voting against new tax legislation.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="" from-date="2004-03-26" to-date="2004-03-29">
               <chron-head>26 March 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Miller acknowledged the loss of support for his leadership and announced that he would resign as Prime Minister on 2 May.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-05-01">
               <chron-head>1 May 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Poland acceded to membership of the EU.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-06-13">
               <chron-head>13 June 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Poland participated in its first elections to the European Parliament. The centrist Platforma Obywatelska (PO—Civic Platform) obtained 15 seats, followed by the Catholic conservative Liga Polskich Rodzin (LPR—League of Polish Families) with 10 seats. The rate of participation by the electorate, at 20.9%, was the second-lowest in any EU member state.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-06-24">
               <chron-head>24 June 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly approved the appointment of a Government led by Marek Belka, and principally composed of SLD members and independents.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2005-09-25">
               <chron-head>25 September 2005</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In legislative elections, the conservative Prawo i Sprawiedliwość (PiS—Law and Justice party) secured the largest proportion of the votes cast, and was awarded 155 seats in the Assembly and 49 in the Senate. PO was placed second in both houses, with 133 and 34 members in the lower and upper chamber, respectively. The populist Partia Samoobrona Rzeczpospolitej Polskiej (SRP—Self-Defence Party of the Republic of Poland), the SLD, the LPR and the PSL also achieved rep­resentation. The rate of participation was 40.6%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2005-10-09">
               <chron-head>9 and 23 October 2005</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a presidential election, Lech Kaczyński of PiS, the Mayor of Warsaw, defeated Donald Tusk of PO in the second round of voting.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2005-10-31">
               <chron-head>31 October 2005</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Kazimierz Marcinkiewicz of PiS was appointed as Prime Minister, leading a minority Government comprising nine members of PiS and eight independents.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2006-04-27">
               <chron-head>27 April 2006</chron-head>
               <chron-text>PiS, the SRP and the LPR signed a coalition agreement, giving the Government majority support in the Assembly.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2006-07-07">
               <chron-head>7 July 2006</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Marcinkiewicz resigned as premier, apparently as a result of disagreements over economic policy with PiS leader and identical twin brother of the President, Jarosław Kaczyński. President Lech Kaczyński subsequently nominated Jarosław Kaczyński as Prime Minister; this appointment was approved by the legislature on 14 July.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2007-08-13">
               <chron-head>13 August 2007</chron-head>
               <chron-text>President Kaczyński dismissed the SRP representatives and the LPR members from the Government, thereby ending the ruling coalition; they were replaced by PiS representatives on an interim basis.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2007-09-07">
               <chron-head>7 September 2007</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The lower legislative chamber voted to dissolve itself, and elections to both parliamentary chambers were scheduled for 21 October.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2007-10-21">
               <chron-head>21 October 2007</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At the elections to the Assembly, PO obtained 209 seats, receiving 41.5% of the votes cast, with PiS receiving 166 seats (32.1% of the votes); an SLD-led coalition, Lewica i Demokraci (Left and Democrats), secured 53 seats (13.2% of the votes) and the PSL 31 seats (8.9% of the votes). The rate of participation was 53.8%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2007-11-05">
               <chron-head>5 November 2007</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Prime Minister Kaczyński submitted the resignation of his minority Government. The lower legislative chamber elected Bronisław Komorowski as its new Marshal.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2007-11-90">
               <chron-head>9 November 2007</chron-head>
               <chron-text>President Kaczyński nominated Tusk, leader of PO, as Prime Minister. Tusk subsequently reached a coalition agreement with the PSL.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2007-11-24">
               <chron-head>24 November 2007</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The new PO-PSL Government, formally appointed eight days earlier, was approved by 238 of the votes cast in the lower legislative chamber.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>7 June 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At elections to the European Parliament, PO secured 25 of the 50 contested seats, while PiS won 15 seats, the SLD (in alliance with the UP) seven seats, and the PSL three seats; the rate of participation was 24.5%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>10 April 2010</chron-head>
               <chron-text>President Kaczyński was killed, with 95 others, in an air crash near Smolensk, Russia, while travelling to mark the 70th anniversary of the massacre of Poles by Soviet troops at Katyn. There were no survivors of the crash, which killed a large number of senior political and military figures, including the President of the National Bank of Poland, Sławomir Skrzypek, and the Chief of Staff of the Defence Forces, Gen. Franciszek Gągor, as well as the President’s wife. In accordance with the Constitution, Komorowski, as the Marshal of the Assembly, was appointed acting President.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>4 July 2010</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The PO candidate, Komorowski, was elected as President in a second round of voting in the presidential election, in which he secured 53.0% of the votes cast. He was inaugurated on 6 August.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>12 January 2011</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Russian investigators published a report into the 2010 air crash, which stated that the Polish crew had not followed safety procedures, prompting criticism from the Polish Prime Minister, who sought an investigation into the conduct of the Russian air traffic control staff.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 October 2011</chron-head>
               <chron-text>PO won 39.2% of the votes and 207 seats in elections to the Assembly, while securing 63 of 100 seats in the Senate. PO’s nearest rival was PiS, which took 29.9% of the vote in the Assembly and 157 seats, and 31 seats in the Senate. A recently formed, socially liberal, anti-clerical party, Ruch Palikota (RP—Palikot’s Movement), was placed third in the elections to the lower chamber, receiving 10.0% of the votes cast and obtaining 40 seats. The PSL obtained 8.4% of the votes cast and 28 seats, while the SLD obtained 8.2% and 27 seats. The rate of participation, at around 50%, was relatively low.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>18 November 2011</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Council of Ministers, substantially unchanged from the outgoing administration, was inaugurated.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>25 May 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In elections to the European Parliament, PO secured 19 seats, PiS 19 seats, the SLD five seats, the Kongres Nowej Prawicy (KNP—Congress of the New Right) four seats, and the PSL four seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 September 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Tusk announced his resignation, following his appointment as President of the European Council from December 2014. Komorowski nominated the Marshal of the Assembly, Ewa Kopacz, as premier.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>22 September 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly approved a new Government, led by Kopacz (who also succeeded Tusk as leader of PO in November).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>16 and 30 November 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>PiS received increased support in local elections, with 26.9% of the votes, compared with 26.4% obtained by PO and 23.7% by the PSL. PO secured 179 of the 555 seats in local assemblies, while PiS received 169 seats and the PSL 159 seats. In December PiS organized a large demonstration in Warsaw in protest against the election results.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>10 and 24 May 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A presidential election took place in two rounds. Andrzej Duda of PiS secured 34.8% of the votes in the first round, whereas Komorowski secured 33.8% and Paweł Kukiz, a singer and media personality, 20.8%. In the second round Duda was narrowly elected President, with 51.6% of the votes. He was inaugurated on 6 August.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>25 October 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In legislative elections PiS secured an overall majority, with 235 seats in the Assembly and 37.6% of the votes; PO obtained 138 seats, with 24.1%. Two new parties, Kukiz’15 and Nowoczesna (Modern), took 42 seats (8.8%) and 28 seats (7.6%), respectively. PiS also secured 61 seats in the Senate, PO 34 and the PSL one. The rate of participation by the electorate was 50.9%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>16 November 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A Government led by the Deputy Chairman of PiS, Beata Szydło, was sworn into office.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>2 December 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The National Assembly approved the Government’s appointment of five judges to the 15-member Constitutional Tribunal (who were immediately sworn in), after the appointment of five judges to the Tribunal in October by the previous PO administration had been annulled. The Constitutional Tribunal ruled on the following day that the election of three of the judges in October had been legitimate (while the other two had been nominated before the expiry of the incumbents’ mandates). However, the President failed to comply with the order to install the three judges. On 12 December a large opposition protest was organized in Warsaw by a newly formed civic movement, the Komitet Obrony Demokracji (Committee for the Defence of Democracy); supporters of the PiS Government rallied on the following day. Later that month both parliamentary chambers approved legislation increasing the quorum required for the adoption of decisions by the tribunal. Duda signed the legislation into law on 28 December.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 January 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The European Commission announced that it was to undertake a preliminary assessment regarding the newly adopted legislation under the rule of law framework (the first time that the monitoring instrument had been used).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>29 January 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Minister of Justice also became the Attorney-General, with control over the Prosecutor’s Office.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 March 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Constitutional Tribunal ruled that the legislation adopted the previous December was in breach of the Constitution, but the Government again refused to regard the judgment as binding.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>11 March 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A report by the Council of Europe’s Venice Commission asserted that the changes made to the Constitutional Tribunal in December were in breach of the rule of law. A revised law on the Constitutional Tribunal was approved by the Assembly on 22 July.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 July 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At a NATO summit meeting, held in Warsaw, the deployment, on a rotating basis, of four new, multinational battalions to Poland and the Baltic region was announced, in large part as a response to increased concerns about Russian foreign policy.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>27 July 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The European Commission issued a recommendation that the three judges deemed to have been legitimately elected in October 2015 be allowed to take office in the Constitutional Tribunal (and that conversely the election of three judges by the new legislature in December was invalid), and that the Government implement the Constitutional Tribunal’s judgment of 9 March 2016.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>7 January 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>President Duda signed legislation permitting the Government directly to appoint the heads of the state broadcasting services.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>15 July 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Senate approved legislation (already endorsed by the Assembly) permitting the legislature and the Minister of Justice to appoint the members of the National Council of the Judiciary (which appoints judges) directly, without consulting judicial bodies. The controversial legislation, which required presidential approval, precipitated protests in Warsaw.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>22 July 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Senate voted in favour of additional proposed legislation that would compel all Supreme Court judges to be removed from their posts, with the exception of those approved by the President, in what was widely considered to represent a move to undermine the independence of the judiciary. Popular protests had increased from 18 July (when the legislation was approved by the lower house). In a televised address on 24 July President Duda announced that he was to veto both the controversial pieces of legislation, although a third bill, permitting the Minister of Justice to dismiss less senior members of the judiciary, was approved by Duda.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>7 December 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Szydło’s Government survived a motion of no confidence, but the Prime Minister announced her resignation nevertheless. Mateusz Morawiecki, previously Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Development and of Finance, was named by Duda as the new Prime Minister. All other ministers remained in place, and Szydło was appointed as a Deputy Prime Minister in the Government, which won a vote of confidence five days later. Meanwhile, also on 7 December the European Commission formally referred Poland (together with the Czech Republic and Hungary) to the European Court of Justice (ECJ) over non-compliance with the EU’s temporary emergency relocation scheme for migrants (who had entered Europe in large numbers from mid-2015).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 December 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>New legislative proposals on the Supreme Court and on the National Council for the Judiciary, which had been submitted by the President on 26 September, were adopted by the Assembly. Also on 8 December the Venice Commission concluded that the judicial reforms enabled both the legislature and the executive to interfere significantly in the judicial process, thereby threatening seriously to undermine judicial independence. However, the two revised laws were approved by the Senate on 15 December.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>20 December 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The European Commission recommended to the Council of the EU that it prepare to launch an unprecedented sanctions procedure against Poland (under Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union), owing to what it deemed to be the systemic threat posed to the rule of law in the country. The Commission also published its fourth rule of law recommendation with respect to Poland, which included demands that the country abandon plans to reduce the retirement age for judges, withdraw from the President the discretionary power to extend the mandate of judges at the Supreme Court, and restore the independence of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Polish Government was asked to submit its response by 20 March 2018.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 January 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Morawiecki reorganized the Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>20 March 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Government presented to the EU its response to the Union’s criticism of its judicial reforms. Shortly afterwards three draft PiS bills provided for amendments to the judicial reforms, removing the power awarded to the Minister of Justice to dismiss members of the judiciary without consultation and intended as a concession to the European Commission. In the same month protests took place in Warsaw and elsewhere against government plans further to restrict access to abortion. The judicial amendments were approved by the lower chamber on 12 April.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>14 May 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The European Commission demanded that Poland deepen efforts to alleviate EU concerns over increasing political control of the judiciary, and imposed a deadline of the end of June for Poland to demonstrate progress in resolving the matter.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>2 July 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Commission launched infringement proceedings relating to Poland’s reforms of the Supreme Court, which were to come into force at midnight on 3 July, owing to continuing concerns over excessive political influence over the operations of the judiciary. The reforms reduced the retirement age for judges at the Supreme Court from 70 to 65 years; as a result, around one-third of its judges were to be compelled to leave office unless Duda agreed to extend their terms of office. PiS had indicated that the reforms were necessary in order to overhaul and modernize the judicial system. Poland had one month to respond to the Commission, which could potentially refer Poland to the ECJ.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>4 July 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Morawiecki defended the judicial reforms, which had come into force as scheduled, and which had prompted widespread protests. Supreme Court First President Małgorzata Gersdorf, who was originally appointed for a six-year term ending in 2020, stated her intention to resist the implementation of the reforms (which would entail her dismissal), asserting that her mandate was guaranteed under the terms of the Constitution.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>11 September 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Office of the President announced the appointment of a new acting head of the Supreme Court.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>24 September 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Commission announced that it was to refer Poland to the ECJ, in a third phase of infringement proceedings against that country, after its official response to the Commission in August was deemed to have been inadequate.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>19 October 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The ECJ issued an interim ruling ordering Poland to suspend immediately the application of the legislation that had reduced the retirement age of Supreme Court judges. On 21 November the National Assembly adopted legislation reversing the disputed retirement legislation. The ECJ upheld its ruling in mid-December, and Duda signed the revised legislation into law, thereby providing for the reinstatement of the judges who had been compelled to retire (including Gersdorf).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 October and 4 November 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Local elections were conducted in two rounds, in which PiS won 34% of the votes cast overall and emerged as the leading party in nine voivodships; a PO-led alliance won 27% of the votes and became the largest grouping in the remaining seven. Notably, PiS candidates were defeated in large cities, including Warsaw, where Rafał Trzaskowski of PO secured the mayoralty.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 January 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Paweł Adamowicz, the liberal Mayor of Gdańsk, was attacked at a charity event; he died the following day.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>26 May 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Elections to the European Parliament took place. PiS secured 45.4% of the votes and 26 of the 51 seats allocated to Poland, while the five-member Koalicja Europejska (European Coalition), comprising PO, the PSL, the SLD, Nowoczesna and the Partia Zieloni (Green Party) won 38.5% of the votes and 22 seats; Wiosna (Spring) secured 6.1% and the remaining three seats. Turnout was recorded at 45.7%, compared with 23.8% in 2014.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>4 June 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A government reorganization was implemented, in part owing to the election of a number of members to the European Parliament. Most prominently, Minister of the Interior and Administration Joachim Brudziński was replaced by Elżbieta Witek. Meanwhile, Marian Banaś, the head of the national tax administration, replaced Teresa Czerwińska as Minister of Finance.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>24 June 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The ECJ issued a final ruling confirming that the legislation on the Supreme Court, which had reduced the retirement age for Supreme Court judges, was in contravention of EU law and in breach of the principle of the irremovability of judges, and compromised the independence of the judiciary.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 October 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At legislative elections, PiS won 235 seats in the Assembly, retaining its majority unchanged, with 43.6% of the votes. The Koalicja Obywatelska (KO—Civic Coalition), which included PO, Nowoczesna and the Partia Zieloni, won 134 seats and 27.4% of the votes, while the Lewica grouping, led by the SLD, won 49 seats (and 12.6% of the votes), the PSL-led grouping Koalicja Polska (Polish Coalition) won 30 seats (8.6%), the Konfederacja Wolność i Niepodległość (Confederation Freedom and Independence), a coalition of the Eurosceptic KORWiN and nationalist Ruch Narodowy (National Movement), won 11 seats (6.8%), and the Mniejszość Niemiecka (German Minority) electoral committee won the remaining seat (0.2%). In the elections to the Senate, PiS won 48 of the 100 seats available, thus losing its absolute majority. The KO won 43 seats, while the Koalicja Polska won three and Lewica won two. Overall turnout was recorded at 61.7%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 November 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The ECJ ruled that reforms introduced to reduce the retirement ages of judges had violated EU law, by awarding excessive power to the executive, empowering the Minister of Justice to choose to retain judges who were beyond retirement age and breaching EU equality law by compelling female judges to retire five years earlier than their male counterparts.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>12 November 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The new parliament held its opening session; two days later Mateusz Morawiecki was reappointed as Prime Minister by Duda.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>15 November 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Government was sworn in, the composition of which was largely unchanged. Tadeusz Kościński was appointed as Minister of Finance, Jacek Czaputowicz remained as Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mariusz Kamiński retained his role as Minister of the Interior and Administration and Mariusz Błaszczak remained in place as Minister of National Defence.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>19 November 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Upon the request of the Polish Supreme Court, the ECJ provided the criteria for ascertaining whether a newly established disciplinary chamber for the Supreme Court, appointed by the ruling PiS, violated the independence of the judiciary, and asked the Polish Supreme Court to pass judgment on the matter; on 5 December the Supreme Court ruled that the new chamber did not fulfil the definition of a court, as enshrined in EU and national law.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>6 February 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Duda signed into law a bill to facilitate the implementation of sanctions for judges challenging recent judicial reforms; although the bill had been rejected by the Senate in December, it had subsequently secured the approval of the Assembly. Meanwhile, in late January the Supreme Court had adopted a resolution on judicial appointments, stating that judges had been appointed illegitimately.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>14 March 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Government declared a state of epidemiological emergency in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>2 April 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The ECJ ruled that Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic had violated the law by refusing to fulfil their obligations under the EU’s migrant relocation scheme.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 April 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The ECJ upheld the EU’s condemnation of Poland’s reform of the judiciary, urging it immediately to suspend the powers of the disciplinary chamber of the Supreme Court.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>28 June 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a first round of voting in the presidential election, which had been postponed from 10 May due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Duda won 43.5% of the votes cast, followed by Rafał Trzaskowski, the Mayor of Warsaw, with 30.5%. Turnout was recorded at 64.5%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>12 July 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Duda secured re-election in the second round of presidential voting, winning 51.0% of the votes, narrowly defeating Trzaskowski, with 49.0%. Despite the pandemic, the turnout, at 68.2%, was the highest ever recorded in Poland. Duda was inaugurated on 6 August.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>26 August 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Zbigniew Rau took office as Minister of Foreign Affairs and Adam Niedzielski became the new Minister of Health.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>30 September 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Kaczyński announced a government reshuffle, which included a role for himself as Deputy Prime Minister. He also became head of a new State Security Committee, overseeing the justice, national defence and interior ministries.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>22 October 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Constitutional Tribunal ruled that abortion on the grounds of severe foetal impairment was unconstitutional. Public protests took place in Warsaw and other major cities nationwide. Five days after the ruling the Ogólnopolski Strajk Kobiet (All-Poland Women’s Strike—a women’s rights group) presented a list of demands, which included a return to the rule of law and the enactment of full women’s rights. A nationwide women’s strike was organized on the following day.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>16 November 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Poland (and Hungary) vetoed the EU’s new long-term budget for 2021-27, which incorporated post-pandemic recovery funds, owing to objections to a new mechanism linking respect for the rule of law with the disbursement of EU funding. Following intensive negotiations, an agreement was reached on 10 December, under which Hungary and Poland agreed to withdraw their vetoes, with implementation of the mechanism to be deferred until the ECJ had ruled on its legality (after which it would apply retroactively from 1 January 2021).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>27 January 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Constitutional Tribunal ruling on abortion was promulgated, and a near-total ban on abortion entered into force on the following day, prompting further large-scale protests.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>11 March 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Both Poland and Hungary filed a complaint with the ECJ over the proposed new rule of law mechanism; their cases were rejected in February 2022.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>3 July 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At a party congress, Donald Tusk was re-elected as leader of the PO.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>14 July 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Polish Constitutional Tribunal ruled that interim injunctions issued by the ECJ, demanding that Poland suspend the special court established to discipline judges, were incompatible with the Constitution and consequently non-binding. The next day, the ECJ ruled that the Government’s disciplinary regime for judges violated EU law.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>20 July 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The European Commission issued a report detailing the non-observance of rule of law criteria by Poland and Hungary, and subsequently announced that it would request that financial penalties be imposed against Poland unless it complied with earlier orders issued by the ECJ.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>2 September 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following a surge in attempts by migrants illegally to cross the Belarusian border into Poland, Duda declared a state of emergency in two border regions.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>7 October 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Constitutional Tribunal ruled that certain articles of the Treaty on European Union were incompatible with Poland’s Constitution, which, it determined, should have precedence over EU law in these cases. The ruling presented a direct challenge to the EU’s principle of the primacy of EU legislation. The EU duly launched infringement proceedings in December, and expressed concerns over the impartiality of the Tribunal; further infringement proceedings were launched in April 2022 relating to the disciplinary regime for judges.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>3 February 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>President Duda proposed a bill to amend the legislation pertaining to the judicial disciplinary chamber, to remove its power to oversee cases against judges, which would instead be heard by a panel convened from members of the Supreme Court. The proposal was approved by the lower house in the legislature on 26 May and signed into law in June.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>28 March 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>All restrictions imposed in response to the COVID-19 pandemic in Poland were lifted.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>2 June 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, travelled to Warsaw, where she confirmed the approval of funding for Poland under its recovery and resilience plan (announced the previous day), which, however, remained dependent on the implementation of judicial reforms to ensure the compliance of the Polish judiciary with EU legislation on the rule of law.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 June 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text> A final version of legislation proposed by President Duda, providing for the closure of the judicial disciplinary chamber of the Supreme Court and its replacement by a Chamber of Professional Responsibility tasked with holding judges to account, was approved by the Assembly; the Assembly rejected a number of amendments proposed by the opposition, which claimed that the new chamber would also be under government control. The legislation was signed into law by Duda four days later. Von der Leyen indicated that the chamber’s closure would be insufficient to meet the EU’s requirements and secure the release of EU funds and halt a daily fine imposed by the ECJ. The disciplinary chamber was dissolved in mid-July.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 January 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Assembly approved legislation to reverse more of the previous contentious judicial reforms, including by transferring judicial disciplinary matters from the Supreme Court to the Supreme Administrative Court.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 April 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text> Following protests by farmers’ groups from March 2023 over large quantities of cheap Ukrainian grain and other produce intended for transit to third-country markets remaining in Poland and damaging domestic prices, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Henryk Kowalczyk announced his resignation. This move was interpreted by some observers as being intended to prevent disruption during the visit of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to Poland on the same day. Robert Telus assumed the agriculture and rural development portfolio.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>18 April 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>After temporary bans were introduced to prevent the import of Ukrainian grain, negotiations took place between Telus and his Ukrainian counterpart, at which agreement was reached on the resumption of the transit of Ukrainian agricultural products, with the introduction of monitoring measures to ensure that none remained in Poland.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 June 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Kaczyński returned to the Government as Deputy Prime Minister, one year after leaving, while the four other Deputy Prime Ministers (Jacek Sasin, Mariusz Błaszcak, Piotr Gliński and Henryk Kowalczyk) resigned.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
     </chron-list>
</chronology>