<?xml version="1.0"?>
<bibl-ref bibl-dtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" id="SL89822" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="89821" slsdocid="72387" slsdocty="bibl-section bibl-dtd"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
          
          <bibl-section id="SK.DIR.577" id-root="sk.dir" iso="sk" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="BIBL-REF" usage="casee">
               <heading>Bibliography</heading>
               <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Slovakia</alt-heading>
               <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Bibliography</alt-heading>
               <bibl-list>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Brown, M. D., Teich, M. and Kováč, D. (Eds). 
          <i>Slovakia in History.</i>
           Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 2010.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Dobrotková, M., Bekmatov, A., Hečkova, A. C., and Kuciak, J. 
          <i>Slovak Mass Media in the 21st Century: Current Challenges</i>
          . Berlin, Peter Lang, 2019.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Felak, J. R. 
          <i>After Hitler, Before Stalin: Catholics, Communists and Democrats in Slovakia, 1945-1948</i>
          . Pittsburgh, PA, University of Pittsburgh Press, 2009.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Hacker, P. 
          <i>Slovakia on the Road to Independence: An American Diplomat’s Eyewitness Account</i>
          . University Park, PA, Pennsylvania State University Press, 2010.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Henderson, K. 
          <i>Politics of Slovakia: Voters, Parties and Democracy, 1989-2004 </i>
          . London, Routledge, 2004.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Hocman, J. 
          <i>Slovakia from the Downfall of Communism to its Accession into the European Union, 1989-2004: The Re-emergence of Political Parties and Democratic Institutions.</i>
           Frankfurt am Main, Peter Lang, 2011.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Hudek, A., Kopeček, M., and Mervart, J. 
          <i>Czechoslovakism</i>
          . Abingdon, Routledge, 2022.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Kirschbaum, S. J. 
          <i>History of Slovakia: The Struggle for Survival</i>
          . New York, St Martin’s Press, 2011.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="IMPLIED-AUTHOR">
                         <i>Historical Dictionary of Slovakia</i>
          . 3rd edn, Lanham, MD, Scarecrow Press, 2014.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Kšiňan, M. 
          <i>Milan Rastislav Štefánik: The Slovak National Hero and Co-Founder of Czechoslovakia</i>
          . Abingdon, Routledge, 2021.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Lorman, T. 
          <i>The Making of the Slovak People’s Party: Religion, Nationalism and the Culture War in Early 20th-Century Europe</i>
          . London, Bloomsbury Academic, 2019.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Marci, Ľ. (Ed.). 
          <i>People, Institutions, Relations: Slovakia and Hungary from the 11th to the 18th Century</i>
          . Berlin, Peter Lang, 2020.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Nadelsky, N. 
          <i>Defining the Sovereign Community: National Identity, Individual Rights and Minority Membership in the Czech and Slovak Republics</i>
          . Philadelphia, PA, University of Philadelphia Press, 2009.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Stolarik, M. 
          <i>The Czech and Slovak Republics: Twenty Years of Independence, 1993-2013</i>
          . Budapest, Central European University Press, 2016.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          van Duin, P. 
          <i>Central European Crossroads: Social Democracy and National Revolution in Bratislava (Pressburg), 1867-1921.</i>
           New York, Berghahn Books, 2009.
        </bibl-entry>
                    <bibl-entry type="FULL">
          Ward, J. M. 
          <i>Priest, Politician, Collaborator: Jozef Tiso and the Making of Fascist Slovakia</i>
          . Ithaca, NY, Cornell University Press, 2013.
        </bibl-entry>
               </bibl-list>
          </bibl-section>
     </bibl-ref>
