<?xml version="1.0"?>
<directory id="SK.DIR" id-root="sk" iso="sk" name-markup-type="STANDARD" original-filename="svkdir1.rtf" print-style="PGWIDTH" usage="ewyb casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <dir-section id="SK.DIR.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
          <heading>Directory</heading>
          <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb casee">Slovakia</alt-heading>
          <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb casee">Directory</alt-heading>
          <dir-sectref dir-sectiondtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" id="SL89780" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="89779" slsdocid="72423" slsdocty="dir-section dir-sectiondtd"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
               
               <dir-section id="SK.DIR.2" id-root="sk.dir" iso="sk" sect-type="constitution" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="casee">
                    <heading>
          The Constitution
          <endnoteref idref="SK.DIR.24" ref-symbol="None" />
                    </heading>
                    <p id="SK.DIR.3">On 1 September 1992 the Slovakian National Council (Slovenská Národná Rada) adopted the Constitution of the Slovak Republic (which entered into force on 1 January 1993), the main provisions of which, as subsequently amended, are summarized below:</p>
                    <dir-section id="SK.DIR.4" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="casee">
                         <heading>Fundamental Provisions</heading>
                         <p id="SK.DIR.5">The Slovak Republic is a democratic and sovereign state, ruled by law. It is bound neither to an ideology, nor to a religion. State power belongs to the people, who exercise it either through their representatives or directly. The state authorities shall act only on the basis of the Constitution and to the extent and in the manner stipulated by law.</p>
                         <p id="SK.DIR.6">The territory of the Slovak Republic is integral and indivisible. The conditions for naturalization or deprival of state citizenship of the Slovak Republic are regulated by law. No person may be deprived of citizenship against his or her will. The Slovak language is the state language in the republic. The use of languages other than the state language in administrative relations is regulated by law. The capital of the republic is Bratislava.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="SK.DIR.7" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="casee">
                         <heading>Basic Rights and Freedoms</heading>
                         <p id="SK.DIR.8">The people are free and equal, and the rights and freedoms of every citizen are guaranteed, irrespective of sex, race, colour, language, faith, political or other conviction, national or social origin, nationality or ethnic origin. No person may be tortured, nor be subjected to cruel, inhuman or humiliating treatment or punishment. Capital punishment is not practised.</p>
                         <p id="SK.DIR.9">Every person has the right to own property. The place of abode is inviolable. The freedom of migration and the freedom of domicile are guaranteed.</p>
                         <p id="SK.DIR.10">The freedom of expression and the right to information are guaranteed. Censorship is prohibited. The right to assemble peacefully is guaranteed. Every person has the right to be a member of a union, community, society or any other association. Citizens have the right to found political parties and movements. Such parties and movements, as well as other associations, are separate from the state.</p>
                         <p id="SK.DIR.11">The citizens have the right to participate in the administration of public affairs, either directly or through the free election of their representatives. The right to vote is universal, direct and equal and is exercised by secret ballot.</p>
                         <p id="SK.DIR.12">The universal advancement of citizens who are members of national minorities and ethnic groups is guaranteed, above all the right to develop their own culture, to broadcast and receive information in their mother tongue, to join national associations and to found and maintain educational and cultural institutions. The languages of national minorities may also be used in administrative relations.</p>
                         <p id="SK.DIR.13">Every person has the right to the free choice of profession and vocational training, as well as to do business and to perform other commercial activities. Employees are entitled to fair and satisfactory working conditions. Citizens may form free associations to protect their economic and social interests. Trade unions are independent of the state. The right to strike is guaranteed.</p>
                         <p id="SK.DIR.14">Every citizen is entitled to adequate old-age and disability benefits; widow’s allowances; free health care; family support; and education.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="SK.DIR.15" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="casee">
                         <heading>The National Council of the Slovak Republic</heading>
                         <p id="SK.DIR.16">Supreme legislative power is vested in the National Council of the Slovak Republic (Národná Rada Slovenskej Republiky), which has 150 deputies, elected for a four-year term. The deputies represent the citizens and are elected by them in general, equal and direct elections, by secret ballot.</p>
                         <p id="SK.DIR.17">The National Council has the power to: adopt the Constitution, constitutional and other laws and supervise their execution; decide on proposals to call a referendum; prior to their ratification, give consent to international political, economic or other agreements; establish ministries and other bodies of state administration; supervise the activities of the Government and approve a vote of confidence or censure on the Government or its members; approve the state budget and supervise its execution; elect judges, including the Chairman and Vice-Chairmen of the Supreme Court and of the Constitutional Court; adopt a resolution to declare war if the Slovak Republic is attacked, or if such a declaration ensues from the obligations of international treaties.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="SK.DIR.18" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="casee">
                         <heading>The President of the Republic</heading>
                         <p id="SK.DIR.19">The President is the Head of State of the Slovak Republic. He or she is directly elected by universal adult suffrage for a five-year term. The President is responsible to the National Council. He/she may not be elected for more than two consecutive terms.</p>
                         <p id="SK.DIR.20">The President represents the Slovak Republic internationally; negotiates and ratifies international agreements; receives and gives credentials to envoys; convenes constituent sessions of the National Council; may dissolve the National Council; signs laws; appoints and recalls the Prime Minister and other members of the Government and receives their resignation; grants amnesty, pardons and commutes sentences imposed by courts; may declare a state of emergency on the basis of constitutional law; may declare a referendum.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="SK.DIR.21" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="casee">
                         <heading>The Government</heading>
                         <p id="SK.DIR.22">The Government of the Slovak Republic is the highest organ of executive power. It is composed of the Prime Minister and Ministers. The Prime Minister is appointed by the President of the Republic. On the Prime Minister’s recommendation, the President appoints and recalls the members of the Government and puts them in charge of their ministries. For the execution of office, the Government is responsible to the National Council.</p>
                         <p id="SK.DIR.23">The Government has the power to prepare bills; issue decrees; adopt fundamental provisions for economic and social policy; author­ize drafts for the state budget and closing account of the year; decide international agreements; decide principal questions of internal and international policy; submit bills to the National Council; request the legislature for a vote of confidence.</p>
                    </dir-section>
               </dir-section>
          </dir-sectref>
          </dir-section>
     </directory>