<?xml version="1.0"?>
<chronology id="LV.CHRON" id-root="lv" original-filename="unknown" region="CASEE" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>Chronology</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Latvia</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Chronology</alt-heading>
     <chron-list>
          <chron-entry date="-2000-01-01">
               <chron-head>
        c. 2000 
        <sc>bce</sc>
               </chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Balts, the ancestors of the Latvians (Letts), settled on the southern shores of the Baltic Sea.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1201-01-01" to-date="1201-12-31">
               <chron-head>
         1201 
        <sc>ce</sc>
               </chron-head>
               <chron-text>Albert von Appeldern, the German Bishop of Livonia, founded the city of Rīga and established the crusading order of the Sword Brethren.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1209-01-01" to-date="1209-12-31">
               <chron-head>1209</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The German crusading order of the Teutonic Knights invaded Jersika, a town in southern Latvia controlled by a native ruler, Visvaldis, following his marriage to a pagan Lithuanian princess.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1290-01-01" to-date="1290-12-31">
               <chron-head>1290</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Teutonic Knights completed their conquest of Latvia with the capture of the kingdom of Zemgale (Semigallia). Latvia and Estonia were subsequently ruled by the Livonian Order of Teutonic Knights under the name of Livonia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1494-01-01" to-date="1494-12-31">
               <chron-head>1494</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Serfdom was introduced in Livonia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1524-01-01" to-date="1534-12-31">
               <chron-head>1524-34</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Livonia converted to Lutheranism.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1558-01-01" to-date="1558-12-31">
               <chron-head>1558</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ivan IV (the Terrible’) of the Russian state of Muscovy attacked Livonia instigating the Livonian War, which continued until 1582.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1561-01-01" to-date="1561-12-31">
               <chron-head>1561</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Livonian State of Teutonic Knights finally ceased to exist: northern Estonia fell under Swedish control, while the rest came under Polish-Lithuanian rule, with coastal territories forming the Duchy of Courland and Zemgale.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1629-01-01" to-date="1629-12-31">
               <chron-head>1629</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Sweden conquered the Livonian territories of Poland.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1721-01-01" to-date="1721-12-31">
               <chron-head>1721</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Treaty of Nystad, concluded by Russia and Sweden, ended the Great Northern War and brought Estonia and much of Livonia under Russian rule.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1772-01-01" to-date="1772-12-31">
               <chron-head>1772</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Latgale, an eastern region of Livonia, was incorporated into the Russian Empire.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1795-01-01" to-date="1795-12-31">
               <chron-head>1795</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The remainder of the Duchy of Courland and Zemgale became part of the Russian Empire.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1905-10-01" to-date="1905-10-31">
               <chron-head>October 1905</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Two Latvian deputies were elected to the Duma (parliament), which was established in the tsarist capital of St Petersburg.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1917-11-18">
               <chron-head>18 November 1917</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A first National Council was elected in Valka, northern Latvia; the Council expressed its intention to establish Latvia as an independent sovereign state.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1918-03-03">
               <chron-head>3 March 1918</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Bolsheviks, in control of the Government of Russia, signed the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk with Germany, thereby ceding Latvia and other territories to Germany.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1918-11-18">
               <chron-head>18 November 1918</chron-head>
               <chron-text>An independent Republic of Latvia was declared and a provisional administration, under the premiership of Kārlis Ulmanis, was formed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1919-01-03">
               <chron-head>3 January 1919</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Soviet Red Army captured Rīga, forcing the Provisional Government to flee to Kurzeme.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1919-05-01" to-date="1919-05-31">
               <chron-head>May 1919</chron-head>
               <chron-text>With the aid of German troops, Latvian forces expelled the Red Army from Rīga.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1919-07-08">
               <chron-head>8 July 1919</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Provisional Government returned to the capital and the Latvian National Council reconvened.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1920-02-01">
               <chron-head>1 February 1920</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Latvian and Soviet Governments signed an armistice, shortly after the last Soviet troops had been expelled from Latvia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1920-05-01">
               <chron-head>1 May 1920</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Constituent Assembly convened, following elections. Jānis Čakste was elected President of the Assembly and of the Republic of Latvia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1920-08-11">
               <chron-head>11 August 1920</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A Latvian-Soviet peace agreement, the Treaty of Rīga, was signed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1922-11-07">
               <chron-head>7 November 1922</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following the promulgation of a new Constitution, the first session of the new Saeima (Parliament) opened.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1934-05-01" to-date="1934-05-31">
               <chron-head>15 May 1934</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ulmanis suspended Parliament.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1936-04-11">
               <chron-head>11 April 1936</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ulmanis became President of Latvia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1939-08-23">
               <chron-head>23 August 1939</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Treaty of Non-Aggression (the Nazi-Soviet or Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact) was concluded by Germany and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR); the Secret Protocols’ to the Pact described Estonia, Latvia and part of Poland as falling within the Soviet sphere of influence’.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1940-06-17">
               <chron-head>17 June 1940</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Red Army troops occupied Latvia. A pro-Soviet administration, headed by Augusts Kirhenšteins, was installed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1940-07-21">
               <chron-head>21 July 1940</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The new parliament proclaimed the Latvian Soviet Socialist Republic (SSR) and requested to be admitted to the Soviet federation. The Latvian SSR was incorporated into the USSR on 5 August.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1941-06-13" to-date="1941-06-13">
               <chron-head>13-14 June 1941</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The deportation of some 33,000 Latvians over a period of several months culminated in the expulsion from Rīga of more than 15,000 inhabitants overnight.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1941-07-01">
               <chron-head>1 July 1941</chron-head>
               <chron-text>German troops, which had invaded the USSR the previous week, reached Rīga.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1944-10-13">
               <chron-head>13 October 1944</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Soviet army recaptured Rīga and Courland.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1949-03-24" to-date="1949-03-27">
               <chron-head>24-27 March 1949</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Some 70,000 Latvians were deported.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1952-01-01" to-date="1952-12-31">
               <chron-head>1952</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The process of agricultural collectivization was completed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1959-01-01" to-date="1959-12-31">
               <chron-head>1959</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In purges of members of the Latvijas Komunistiskā Partija (LKP—Communist Party of Latvia) accused of Latvian nationalism, Jānis Kalnērziņš, First Secretary of the LKP since 1940, was dismissed and replaced by Arvīds Pelše.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1966-01-01" to-date="1966-12-31">
               <chron-head>1966</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Augusts Voss succeeded Pelše as First Secretary and continued repressive policies of russification.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1984-01-01" to-date="1984-12-31">
               <chron-head>1984</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Boris Pugo became First Secretary of the LKP.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1986-07-01" to-date="1986-07-31">
               <chron-head>July 1986</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Helsinki-86 group, which aimed to monitor observance of the human rights provisions of the Helsinki Final Act of 1975, was established in Liepāja.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1987-06-14">
               <chron-head>14 June 1987</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Helsinki-86 organized a mass demonstration to mark the 1941 deportations.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1988-09-01" to-date="1988-09-30">
               <chron-head>September 1988</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Jan Vigris replaced Pugo as First Secretary of the LKP.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1988-09-29">
               <chron-head>29 September 1988</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Latvian became the state language and the former Latvian flag and national anthem were legalized (they were restored to official use in February 1990).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1988-10-01" to-date="1988-10-31">
               <chron-head>October 1988</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Latvijas Tautas Fronte (LTF—Latvian Popular Front) was formed by representatives of the opposition and radicals from the LKP; the new group resolved to seek sovereignty for Latvia within a renewed Soviet federation.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1989-02-01" to-date="1989-02-28">
               <chron-head>February 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Latvijas Nacionālās Neatkarības Kustība (LNNK—Latvian National Independence Movement), which advocated full independence, held its first congress.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1989-03-26">
               <chron-head>26 March 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In the elections to the all-Union Congress of People’s Deputies, candidates supported by the LTF won 26 of the 34 seats contested.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1989-07-28">
               <chron-head>28 July 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A declaration of sovereignty and economic independence was adopted by the Latvian Supreme Soviet (Supreme Council—legislature).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1990-01-01" to-date="1990-01-31">
               <chron-head>January 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Latvian Supreme Soviet voted to end the communist monopoly of power.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1990-03-01" to-date="1990-04-30">
               <chron-head>March-April 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In elections to the Latvian Supreme Soviet, candi­dates endorsed by the LTF won 131 of the 201 seats contested; the LKP (including an anti-independence faction, Interfront) won some 59 seats. Eleven independents were elected.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1990-04-30" to-date="1990-05-01">
               <chron-head>30 April-1 May 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A rival parliament, the Congress of Latvia, the members of which were elected only by citizens of pre-1940 Latvia and their descendants, convened; the Con­gress announced that Latvia was an occupied country and demanded full independence.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1990-05-03">
               <chron-head>3 May 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Anatolijs Gorbunovs was elected Chairman of the Supreme Soviet, the republican head of state.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1990-05-04">
               <chron-head>4 May 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Supreme Soviet declared Latvia’s incorp­oration into the USSR unlawful and announced the beginning of a transitional period towards full independence; Ivars Godmanis was elected premier of a new administration domin­ated by the LTF.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1990-05-14">
               <chron-head>14 May 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A decree issued by Soviet President USSR annulled the Latvian declaration of independence.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-01-02">
               <chron-head>2 January 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Special units of the Soviet Ministry of Internal Affairs, which, the Latvian Government claimed, had been responsible for a series of explosions in Rīga in December, occupied the Rīga Press House.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-01-20">
               <chron-head>20 January 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Committee of Public Salvation’, led by the First Secretary of the LKP, Alfrēds Rubiks, claimed authority in Latvia; his coup attempt eventually failed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-03-03">
               <chron-head>3 March 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a referendum 73.7% of participants voted in favour of Latvian independence.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-08-21">
               <chron-head>21 August 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following the attempted coup in Moscow (the Russian and Soviet capital), an emergency session of the Supreme Council was convened; the Council declared full independence.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-08-23">
               <chron-head>23 August 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Rubiks was arrested and the Communist Party of the Soviet Union was banned in Latvia. In July 1995 Rubiks was sentenced to eight years’ imprisonment; however, he was released in November 1997.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-09-06">
               <chron-head>6 September 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Latvia’s independence was formally recognized by the State Council of the USSR.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-09-17">
               <chron-head>17 September 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Latvia was admitted to the United Nations (UN).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-10-15">
               <chron-head>15 October 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Legislation on citizenship was adopted by the Supreme Council; the law stipulated that all residents who were not citizens of pre-1940 Latvia or their descendants must apply for naturalization.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1993-06-05" to-date="1993-06-06">
               <chron-head>5-6 June 1993</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Elections were held to the new Parliament: the recently formed Latvijas Ceļš (LC—Latvian Way) won 36 of the 100 seats contested and formed a coalition with the Latvijas Zemnieku Savienība (LZS—Latvian Farmers’ Union), which won 12 seats. Later, Gorbunovs was elected legislative Chairman and Parliament voted to restore the Constitution of 1922. The new Government, headed by Valdis Birkavs, took office in early August.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1993-07-08">
               <chron-head>7 July 1993</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Guntis Ulmanis of the LZS took office as President of Latvia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1994-03-01" to-date="1994-03-31">
               <chron-head>March 1994</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The USA mediated an agreement on the withdrawal of Russian troops from Latvia, according to which Russia was allowed use of the Skrunda base for a further four years, but all other troops were to leave by 31 August.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1994-07-11">
               <chron-head>11 July 1994</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The LZS withdrew from the ruling coalition, precipitating the Government’s resignation.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1994-09-15">
               <chron-head>15 September 1994</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Government, again consisting mainly of LC members, assumed office, led by Māris Gailis.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1995-09-30" to-date="1995-10-01">
               <chron-head>30 September-1 October 1995</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a general election nine groups obtained parliamentary representation: the newly established Demokrātiskā Partija `Saimnieks’ (DPS—Saimnieks Democratic Party) won the largest number of seats (18), followed by the LC (17) and the extreme nationalist Tautas Kustība `Latvijai’ (TKL—People’s Movement for Latvia), with 16 seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1995-12-01" to-date="1995-12-31">
               <chron-head>December 1995</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament approved a new Cabinet of Ministers, consisting of members of most of the major parties, excluding the TKL; the coalition’s Prime Minister was Andris Šķēle, who was without party affiliation.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1996-06-18">
               <chron-head>18 June 1996</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament re-elected Ulmanis as President.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1997-07-25">
               <chron-head>25 July 1997</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Šķēle’s second Government resigned; President Ulmanis invited Guntars Krasts, the outgoing Minister of the Economy and a member of the Tēvzemei un Brīvībai/Latvijas Nacionālās Neatkarības Kustība (TB/LNNK—For Fatherland and Freedom Union/Latvian National Conservative Party), to form a new administration.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1997-08-07">
               <chron-head>7 August 1997</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament approved Krasts’s proposal for a coalition of the largest political factions: the TB/LNNK, the DPS, the LC, the LZS and the Kristīgi Demokrātiskā Savienība (Christian Democratic Union).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1998-04-03">
               <chron-head>3 April 1998</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Atis Sausnitis, the Minister of the Economy, was dismissed. All of the ministers from his party, the DPS, resigned five days later; a new coalition Government took office at the end of the month.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1998-10-03">
               <chron-head>3 October 1998</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At legislative elections Tautas Partija (TP—the People’s Party), founded by former Prime Minister Šķēle, obtained 24 seats, followed by the LC with 21 seats, the TB/LNNK with 17 seats and Jaunā Partija (JP—the New Party) with eight seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1998-10-26">
               <chron-head>26 October 1998</chron-head>
               <chron-text>New legislation on citizenship, easing requirements for naturalization, which had recently been approved by referendum, was formally promulgated; however, together with legislation favouring the Latvian language in education and broadcasting, it provoked considerable protest. Citizenship legislation was later amended in May 2013.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1998-11-26">
               <chron-head>26 November 1998</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A coalition Government, headed by former transport minister Vilis Krištopans, and comprising the LC, the TB/LNNK and the JP, was formed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1999-06-17">
               <chron-head>17 June 1999</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Vaira Vīķe-Freiberga was elected as President, following seven rounds of voting in Parliament. She took office on 8 July.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1999-07-05">
               <chron-head>5 July 1999</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Krištopans announced his Government’s resig­nation. Vīķe-Freiberga asked Šķēle to form a new coalition Government comprising the TP, the TB/LNNK and the LC.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1999-10-22">
               <chron-head>22 October 1999</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Russia abandoned its last military post in the Baltic states, the Skrunda radar station.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1999-12-09">
               <chron-head>9 December 1999</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A revised version of lan­guage legislation, which the Russian Government condemned, was approved. The law came into effect on 1 September 2000.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2000-04-12">
               <chron-head>12 April 2000</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Šķēle resigned as premier following the withdrawal of the LC from the coalition.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2000-04-25">
               <chron-head>25 April 2000</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Vīķe-Freiberga invited the former Mayor of Rīga, Andris Bērziņš (of the LC), to form a new administration. A coalition Government of the TP, the TB/LNNK, the LC and the JP was subsequently formed. The JP left the Government in February 2001.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2002-10-05">
               <chron-head>5 October 2002</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Legislative elections were held. Jaunais Laiks (JL—New Era), led by the former head of the Bank of Latvia, Einārs Repše, won 23.9% of the votes cast (26 seats); the leftist, pro-Russian, Par Cilvēka Tiesībām Vienotā Latvijā (PCTVL—For Human Rights in a United Latvia) bloc obtained 18.9% of the votes (25 seats), and the TP received 16.7% (20 seats). Other parties to achieve re­pres­entation in Parliament were Zaļo un Zemnieku Savienība (ZZS—Greens’ and Farmers’ Union, 12 seats), the Latvijas Pirmā Partija (LPP—Latvian First Party, 10 seats) and the TB/LNNK (seven seats).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2002-11-07">
               <chron-head>7 November 2002</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament approved a new Government, led by Repše.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2003-06-20">
               <chron-head>20 June 2003</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Vīķe-Freiberga, the sole candidate, was re-elected as President, by 88 votes to six within Parliament.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2003-09-20">
               <chron-head>20 September 2003</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a referendum on Latvia’s accession to the European Union (EU) 66.8% of the votes cast were in favour; 72.5% of the electorate participated in the plebiscite.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-02-05">
               <chron-head>5 February 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Repše announced the resignation of his administration following the withdrawal of the LPP, declaring that a minority Government was unworkable.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-02-20">
               <chron-head>20 February 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>President Vīķe-Freiberga nominated the Co-Chairman of Latvijas Zaļā Partija (the Latvian Green Party, part of the ZZS), Indulis Emsis, as premier. In early March Emsis secured the support of the ZZS, the LPP and the TP, and a new coalition Government was approved by Parliament on 9 March.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-03-29">
               <chron-head>29 March 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Latvia became a full member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-05-01">
               <chron-head>1 May 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Latvia was admitted to the EU.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-06-13">
               <chron-head>13 June 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In elections to the European Parliament the opposition TB/LNNK won four of the nine available seats; JL secured two, and the PCTVL alliance, the TP and LC received one seat each, leaving the two major parties of the governing coalition without representation.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-10-28">
               <chron-head>28 October 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Emsis announced the resignation of his Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="200-12-02">
               <chron-head>2 December 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Government, led by Aigars Kalvītis of the TP, and also including JL, the ZZS and the LPP, was approved by Parliament.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2006-04-06">
               <chron-head>6 April 2006</chron-head>
               <chron-text>JL withdrew its seven ministers from the Government. Two days later Parliament approved a minority Government, comprising members of the TP, LC, the LPP and the ZZS.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>7 October 2006</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At elections to Parliament the TP won some 19.6% of votes cast and 23 seats, the ZZS 16.7% of the votes (18 seats), JL 16.4% of the votes (18 seats), the Saskaņas Centrs (SC—Harmony Centre, an alliance of several left-wing groups) 14.4% of the votes (17 seats), the LPP, led by Ainārs Šlesers and allied with the LC, 8.6% of the votes (10 seats), the TB/LNNK 6.9% (eight seats) and the PCTVL 6.0% (six seats).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>7 November 2006</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Kalvītis, having invited the TB/LNNK to join the existing governing coalition in order to strengthen its narrow parliamentary majority, formed a new administration.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2007-03-27">
               <chron-head>27 March 2007</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Prime Minister Kalvītis and his Russian counterpart, meeting in Moscow, signed a border treaty, originally agreed in 1997, after the removal of a declaration that had been interpreted by Russia as a territorial claim. Parliament had approved the amended treaty in February.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2007-05-31">
               <chron-head>31 May 2007</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament elected Valdis Zatlers as President; he was inaugurated on 8 July.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>December 2007</chron-head>
               <chron-text>After Kalvītis tendered the resignation of his Government, Zatlers nominated Ivars Godmanis to the premiership. On 20 December Parliament approved a new coalition Government, comprising representatives of the LPP/LC (following the merger of the LPP and the LCC), the TP, the ZZS and the TB/LNNK.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>23 December 2008</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following the adoption of austerity measures, the International Monetary Fund approved lending of €1,680m. as part of a wider economic stabilization programme for Latvia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>26 February 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>After Godmanis resigned on 20 February, Zatlers nominated Valdis Dombrovskis, a member of JL and a former Minister of Finance, as his successor.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>12 March 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new coalition Government, comprising representatives of JL, the TP, the ZZS, the TB/LNNK and the recently formed, centre-right Pilsoniskā Savienība (PS—Civic Union), was approved by Parliament.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>6 June 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Elections to the European Parliament were held concurrently with elections to a new single-tier structure of local government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>22 March 2010</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The TP withdrew its ministers (including the Minister of Foreign Affairs) from the governing coalition, owing to disagreement over plans to introduce tax increases.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>2 October 2010</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The recently founded Vienotība (Unity) coalition, which included JP and the PS, was the most successful group at elections to Parliament, obtaining 31.9% of the votes cast and a total of 33 seats. The SC demonstrated an increase in support, receiving 26.6% and 29 seats, and the ZZS alliance secured 20.1% of the votes cast and 22 seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>3 November 2010</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament voted to approve the formation of a Government, again headed by Dombrovskis, comprising the parties of Vienotība and the ZZS alliance.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>2 June 2011</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament voted to approve the nomination of Andris Bērziņš, a former banking and business executive (unrelated to the former Prime Minister of that name) of the ZZS, as President, defeating Zatlers.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 July 2011</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Bērziņš was inaugurated as President. Later in the month Zatlers formed a new centre-right political party; Zatlera Reformu Partija (ZRP—Zatlers’ Reform Party, later renamed the Reformu Partija—RP, Reform Party).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>23 July 2011</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A national referendum took place, organized by Zatlers, to approve the dissolution of the legislature, in response to what he regarded as its attitude of `permissiveness’ towards corruption (in particular in relation to allegations surrounding prominent politician and oligarch Ainārs Šlesers). Votes cast by 94.3% of participants supported the dissolution of Parliament. The rate of participation was 44.7%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>17 September 2011</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In early elections to Parliament, the SC alliance secured 28.4% of the valid votes cast, winning 31 seats; the ZRP won 20.8% of the votes cast and 22 seats, while Vienotība took 18.8% and 20 seats. The Nacionālā Apvienība (NA—National Alliance—formed by the merger of TB/LNNK and Visu Latvijai!—All For Latvia!) and the ZZS took 14 and 13 seats, respectively.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>25 October 2011</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Prime Minister Dombrovskis formed a new, coalition Government, comprising members of the ZRP, Vienotība and the NA. </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>27 November 2013</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Dombrovskis announced his resignation, and that of his Government, days after the roof of a supermarket building in Rīga collapsed, killing 54 people. The Government was accused of failing adequately to monitor construction work.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>1 January 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Latvia adopted the euro as its national currency.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>6 January 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Bērziņš nominated Laimdota Straujuma of Vienotība as the new premier. She subsequently formed a Government comprising members of the RP, Vienotība, the ZZS and the NA, which took office on 22 January.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>24 May 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In elections to the European Parliament, Vienotība won four seats. The ZZS, the NA, the Saskaņa Sociāldemokrātiskā Partija (Saskaņa—Harmony Social Democratic Party) and the Latvijas Krievu Savienībā (Latvian Russian Union—including the PCTVL) each secured one seat. The rate of participation was 30.0%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>19 June 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament approved a new preamble to the Constitution, which solidified the importance of Latvian culture and language to the state, and referenced the establishment and restoration of independence.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>4 October 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In legislative elections, Saskaņa led with 23% of the votes and 24 seats. Vienotība, which had incorporated RP candidates under an electoral agreement, received 21.9% and 23 seats, the ZZS 19.5% and 21 seats, and the NA 16.6% and 17 seats. Two newly formed associations, the Latvijas Re&#291;ionu Apvienība (Latvian Association of Regions) and No Sirds Latvijai (For Latvia from the Heart), also obtained representation with, respectively, 6.7% of the votes and eight seats, and 6.9% and seven seats. Some 58.9% of the electorate participated.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 November 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new coalition Government, comprising Vienotība, the ZZS and the NA, and again led by Straujuma, was approved by Parliament. Many ministers from the previous administration retained their portfolios; Jānis Reirs of Vienotība was appointed as Minister of Finance, and Dana Reizniece-Ozola of the ZZS became Minister of the Economy.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>3 June 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Raimonds Vējonis of the ZZS, hitherto the Minister of Defence, was elected as the new President by Parliament; he was sworn in on 8 July.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>7 December 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Straujuma announced her resignation as Prime Minister, amid conflict within the governing coalition.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 January 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>President Vējonis nominated Māris Kučinskis, a member of the regionalist Liepājās Partija (Liepāja Party)—part of the ZZS—and a former Minister of Regional Development and Local Government, as Prime Minister.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>11 February 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Kučinskis’s Government was confirmed in office by Parliament. Its composition was substantially unchanged from the previous administration. Notably, Arvils Ašeradens became Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Economy, succeeding Reizniece-Ozola, who became Minister of Finance, while the erstwhile finance minister, Jānis Reirs, became Minister of Welfare.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>31 January 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Prime Ministers of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania met EU officials in the Estonian capital, Tallinn, where a trilateral agreement was signed on the development of the `Rail Baltica’, with EU funding.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>3 June 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Local elections took place. A joint list of Saskaņa and a municipal party secured a majority in Rīga City Council, and Nils Ušakovs remained in post as Mayor.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 February 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN), attached to the US Treasury, identified Latvia’s third largest bank, ABLV Bank, as involved in money laundering; the European Central Bank (ECB) subsequently ordered ABLV Bank to suspend payments.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>17 February 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Governor of the Bank of Latvia and Latvia’s representative at the ECB, Ilmārs Rimšēvičs, was detained, following allegations of bribery. After his release on bail two days later he was subject to separate complaints by a senior official of Norvik Banka that he and an associate had solicited bribes. Rimšēvičs denied the accusations.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>24 February 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The ECB announced the failure of ABLV Bank after severe declines in liquidity. In early March the US Assistant Secretary for Terrorist Financing visited Rīga, and expressed concern at the apparent ongoing involvement of Latvian banks in money laundering schemes.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>23 March 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament passed, in the final reading, changes to education law providing for the phased withdrawal of Russian-language teaching in core subjects at secondary schools, which was to be completed by the end of 2021.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>26 April 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament adopted legislation intended to combat money laundering and terrorist financing by banning co-operation with `shell’ companies (typically offshore companies demonstrating a lack of documented economic activity), and by facilitating improved oversight of the financial services sector.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>4 July 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Vējonis promulgated legislation prohibiting, from the following year, the use of Russian as the language of instruction at private universities. Protests ensued and a rally was attended by some 5,000 people in Rīga in September.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>6 October 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At elections to Parliament, Saskaņa was the leading party, securing 19.8% of the votes and 23 seats; the populist KPV LV (Kam Pieder Valsts?—Who Owns the State?) obtained 14.3% of the votes and 16 seats and the Jaunā Konservatīvā Partija (JKP—New Conservative Party) secured representation for the first time, with 13.6% and 16 seats. The Attīstībai Par! (Development For!) alliance, led by the newly formed Kustība Par! (Movement For!), obtained 12.0% and 13 seats, the NA 11.0% and 13 seats, the ZZS 9.9% and 11 seats, and a joint electoral list formed by Vienotība with several small parties, Jaunā Vienotība (New Unity), won 6.7% of the votes and eight seats. The official rate of participation by the electorate was 54.6%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>23 January 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament approved a new coalition Government led by (Arturs) Krišjānis Kariņš of Vienotība and also comprising members of Kustība Par!, the JKP, KPV LV and the NA. JKP Chairman Jānis Bordāns received the post of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and Artis Pabriks of Kustība Par! became Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence. Reirs was awarded the finance portfolio and KPV LV representatives Ralfs Nemiro and Sandis Ģir&#291;ens became, respectively, Minister of the Economy and Minister of the Interior.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>26 February 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The European Court of Justice annulled the Government’s decision to suspend Rimšēvičs as Governor of the Bank of Latvia (following an appeal), ruling that there was insufficient evidence of misconduct.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 April 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The suspension of Ušakovs from his position as Mayor of Rīga was announced, following an investigation into alleged corruption schemes involving the municipal public transportation company (which had resulted in several arrests). He resigned in late May.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>25 May 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Elections to the European Parliament took place. Of the eight seats in the Parliament allocated to Latvia, Jaunā Vienotība, Saskaņa and the NA each won two seats, and Attīstībai/Par! and the Latvijas Krievu Savienībā (LKS) each won one. Some 33.5% of the electorate participated.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>29 May 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A former judge at the European Court of Justice, Egils Levits, was elected as President. Levits received the support of 61 parliamentarians, defeating two other candidates. He was inaugurated on 8 July.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>12 March 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Government declared a state of emergency and introduced measures designed to contain the disease, including school closures and the prohibition of mass gatherings.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>10 June 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliament approved, in its final reading, a proposal by Levits on administrative territorial reform. Notably, from 1 July 2021 Latvia was to comprise 42 (instead of 119) municipalities. The proposal passed into law in October 2020. </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>29 August 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In early elections to Rīga City Council a coalition of Attīstībai/Par! and Progresīvie (the Progressives) secured 18 of the 60 seats available (the first victory by liberal parties in the capital since 1991). The rate of participation was 40.6%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>2 October 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Attīstībai/Par! candidate Mārtiņš Staķis was elected Mayor of Rīga.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 November 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In response to rising cases of COVID-19, the Government introduced a second state of emergency and new restrictions.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>7 January 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ilze Viņķele resigned from her post as Minister of Health, following criticism of her management of a nationwide vaccination plan. Parliament approved Daniels Pavļuts, the leader of Kustība Par!, as the new health minister.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>2 June 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Kariņš announced a reorganization of the Government, removing representatives of the KPV LV; the remaining four governing parties, which no longer held a parliamentary majority, signed a new agreement on co-operation. On the following day Parliament approved appointments to the vacant posts: Vitenbergs (who had left the KPV LV and joined the NA) returned to the post of Minister of the Economy, Marija Golubeva of Attīstībai/Par! was made Minister of the Interior, and Gatis Eglītis of the JKP (known as Konservatīvie—The Conservatives from 2022) became Minister of Welfare. A new JKP Minister of Education and Science, Anita Muižniece, was also appointed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 June 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Elections were conducted in the restructured municipalities (with the exception of Rīga, where elections took place in 2020, and Varakļāni and Rēzekne municipalities, where elections were postponed until September). The LRA and ZZS regional alliances performed most strongly. A voter turnout of 34.0% was recorded. The restructured territorial administration officially entered into effect at the beginning of July.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>10 August 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Government announced a three-month state of emergency in four administrative areas bordering Belarus and introduced new border control measures, accusing the Belarusian authorities of `hybrid warfare’, after evidence emerged that border officials there were assisting and encouraging migrants (many from Iraq) to cross illicitly into the EU, in reprisal for support of the Belarusian opposition and sanctions against the regime of Belarusian President Alyaksandr Lukashenka. The state of emergency was subsequently extended.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>11 October 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new state of emergency came into effect in response to a new wave of COVID-19 infections. The state of emergency was lifted on 1 March 2022, and nearly all restrictions were lifted by the beginning of April. </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 April 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine on 24 February, members of Parliament in both Latvia and Estonia voted unanimously to recognize the killing of civilians by Russian forces in occupied areas of Ukraine as genocide.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>1 October 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Parliamentary elections took place. The Jaunā Vienotība alliance, led by Kariņš’ Vienotība, was first-placed, with 19.0% of the votes and 26 of the 100 seats in the Parliament. The ZZS become the second-largest party, with 12.4% of the votes and 16 seats, the Apvienotais Saraksts (United List—comprising a number of centrist, regional and environmentalist parties) won 11.0% of the votes and 15 seats, the NA won 9.3% of the votes and 13 seats, while Stabilitātei! (For Stability!) won 6.8% of the votes and 11 seats. Saskaņa, which had secured the largest proportion of the votes in the three previous elections to the legislature, failed to reach the 5% threshold required to secure representation in Parliament; Konservatīvie also lost all of its seats.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>14 December 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following protracted negotiations, a new Government took office, again led by Kariņs, having secured the approval of 54 votes in the legislature. The coalition Government comprised members of Jaunā Vienotība, the NA and the Apvienotais Saraksts. Notably, Ināra Mūrniece of the NA was appointed Minister of Defence and Kučinskis became Minister of the Interior.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 April 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Legislation reintroducing compulsory military service for males received parliamentary approval.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>31 May 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Edgars Rinkēvičs, the country’s longstanding Minister of Foreign Affairs, was elected President, securing 52 votes after a third round of voting in the legislature; the parties of the governing coalition had been unable to agree on support for a single candidate.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>15 June 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Government survived a motion of no confidence brought by 15 parliamentarians from the LPV (which held nine seats in the legislature) and Stabilitātei!, who accused the Government of having been ineffective during its first six months in office.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 July 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Rinkēvičs was sworn in as President, having resigned as Minister of Foreign Affairs the previous day. Prime Minister Kariņs assumed the foreign affairs portfolio in an acting capacity.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
     </chron-list>
</chronology>