<?xml version="1.0"?>
<intro-survey id="KS.IS" id-root="ks" iso="ks.is" usage="ewyb"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <country-head>Kosovo</country-head>
     <alt-heading usage="casee">Kosovo</alt-heading>
     <is-section id="KS.IS.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
          <heading>Introductory Survey</heading>
          <is-section id="KS.IS.2" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Location, Climate, Language, Religion, Flag, Capital</heading>
               <p>The Republic of Kosovo (Kosova), formerly the province of Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia, is situated in the central Balkan peninsula in South-Eastern Europe. It borders Serbia in the north-west and north-east, North Macedonia in the south, Albania in the south-west, and Montenegro to the west. The climate is continental. Under the 2008 Constitution the official languages are Albanian and Serbian, while the Turkish, Bosnian and Roma languages are also accorded official status at municipal level. The principal religion in Kosovo is Islam. Serbs are principally adherents of Orthodox Christianity, as represented by the Serbian Orthodox Church. The state flag (proportions 2 by 3) is blue, with an arc of six white stars above a golden map of Kosovo. The capital is Prishtina (Prishtinë—Priština).</p>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="KS.IS.3" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Contemporary Political History</heading>
               <is-section id="KS.IS.12646927141" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Historical Context</heading>
                    <p>Kosovo was part of the Serbian state established by the Nemanja dynasty in 1166. The Serbian Orthodox Patriarchate was established in Kosovo in the 13th century, and the territory was the location of the defeat of the Serbs by the Turkish Ottoman Empire at Fushë Kosovë (Kosovo Polje) in 1389. After continued Albanian resistance to Ottoman rule, the League of Prizren political organization was established in 1878. Kosovo remained under Ottoman rule until its annexation by Serbia in 1912. Following the establishment of the Federative People’s Republic of Yugoslavia, its 1946 Constitution provided for the establishment of Kosovo and Metohija (as the region was renamed—`Metohija’, meaning `monastic estates’, emphasizing the historic Orthodox Christian population of the territory) as an autonomous unit within Serbia. In 1963 the region was formally upgraded in status to that of an autonomous province, a status confirmed by the 1974 Constitution, which also renamed the territory as Kosovo.</p>
                    <p>From the mid-1980s increasing Serb nationalism, and the rise to power of Slobodan Milošević (President of Serbia in 1989-97), exacerbated tensions in Kosovo. A new Serbian Constitution, adopted in 1990, revoked the autonomy of the province; this was confirmed by the April 1992 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. A Serbia-wide referendum, largely boycotted by ethnic Albanians, was conducted on 2 July 1990, when a majority of Serbs approved the new Constitution. It was promulgated on 28 September, whereupon Kosovo was again renamed Kosovo and Metohija. Shortly afterwards, 114 of 180 deputies in the Kuvendi i Kosovës/Skupština Kosova (Kosovo Assembly) declared Kosovo independent. On 5 July the Serbian authorities dissolved the provincial Assembly and Government. The Kosovo presidency resigned in protest, and Serbia introduced a special administration. On 7 September members of the former representative body declared the Kosovo Assembly to have been reconvened and subsequently proclaimed a basic law of a Republic of Kosovo’. Elections, declared illegal by the Serbian authorities, were held in the province on 24 May 1992. The Lidhja Demokratike e Kosovës (LDK—Democratic League of Kosovo) secured the most seats in the 130-member Assembly, and the LDK leader, Ibrahim Rugova, was elected President of the self-proclaimed Republic of Kosovo’.</p>
               </is-section>
               <is-section id="KS.IS.12646927581" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Domestic Political Affairs</heading>
                    <p>
          Throughout the mid-1990s Kosovo Albanians experienced harassment by Serbian police. In early 1996 an ethnic Albanian militant organization, the Ushtria Çlirimtare e Kosovës (UÇK—Kosovo Liberation Army), declared its intention to achieve independence for Kosovo through armed resistance, and began attacks against security forces. Special Serbian security units undertook reprisals. Negotiations regarding the implementation of a ceasefire and the withdrawal of Serbian forces were conducted during 1998. In October, following a 
          <xr pageref="Y" ref="NATO.IO">North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)</xr>
           ultimatum, Milošević, President of Yugoslavia since the previous year, agreed to the presence in Kosovo of an 
          <xr pageref="Y" ref="OSCE.IO">Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE)</xr>
           mission, which began deployment in November. Nevertheless, armed clashes between Serbian forces and the UÇK increased. In January 1999 the bodies of 45 Albanians were discovered in the village of Reçak (Račak). In February a peace conference in Rambouillet, France, attended by Serbian and ethnic Albanian delegations, including UÇK representatives, commenced. Although the Albanian delegation signed a peace agreement on 18 March, the Serbian delegation continued to present objections to it. On 23 March the Serbian legislature adopted a resolution condemning aggression against its country and opposing the deployment of NATO forces in Kosovo.
        </p>
                    <p>On 24 March 1999 a NATO-led aerial bombardment of military and civilian installations in Yugoslavia commenced. Serbian security forces in Kosovo subsequently conducted mass expulsions and massacres of the Albanian civilian population. According to the Office of the United Nations (UN) High Commissioner for Refugees, 848,100 ethnic Albanians fled or were expelled from Kosovo. On 3 June the Serbian legislature approved a peace agreement providing for the withdrawal of Serbian forces and the deployment of a joint NATO-Russian peacekeeping force. On 10 June the withdrawal of Serbian forces commenced, and NATO officially suspended its air operations; a UN Security Council resolution was approved, authorizing the deployment of international civil and security presences in Kosovo, and providing for the establishment of the UN Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) as the supreme executive authority in the region. On 12 June Russian and NATO troops entered Kosovo. By 20 June the Serb withdrawal had been completed and the multinational NATO-led Kosovo Force (KFOR), with an authorized strength of up to 50,000, was established.</p>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Kosovo under UN Administration</heading>
                         <p>In local government elections, held on 28 October 2000, Rugova’s reconstituted LDK secured 58% of the votes cast to 30 municipal councils, while the Partia Demokratike e Kosovës (PDK—Democratic Party of Kosovo), led by former UÇK commander Hashim Thaçi, won 27% of the votes. Elections to 100 seats of the 120-member Kosovo Assembly were conducted on 17 November 2001, under a UNMIK programme for establishing partial and provisional self-government in the province. (The remaining 20 seats were reserved for representatives of Serbs and other minority ethnic groups.) The LDK secured 47 seats, while the PDK won 26 seats and a coalition of Serb parties 22 seats. On 4 March 2002, following inter-party discussions, Rugova was elected President of Kosovo. A member of the PDK, Bajram Rexhepi, became Prime Minister, and a coalition Government was established. In April the Serb coalition agreed to join the administration.</p>
                         <p>In March 2004 the drowning of three Albanian boys, after their apparent pursuit by a group of Serbs, precipitated rioting in the divided city of Mitrovicë/Mitrovica in the north, escalating into several days of clashes between Serb and Albanian communities across Kosovo, resulting in at least 19 deaths. Some 2,000 KFOR reinforcements were dispatched to quell the violence. At elections to the Assembly on 23 October, the LDK retained 47 seats, while the PDK increased its representation to 30 seats, and the Aleanca për Ardhmërinë e Kosovës (AAK—Alliance for the Future of Kosovo) obtained nine seats. The LDK negotiated a coalition agreement, whereby the leader of the AAK, Ramush Haradinaj, was appointed as the new Prime Minister on 3 December. Serb parties strongly criticized the appointment of Haradinaj, a former senior UÇK leader who had been under investigation by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) for alleged war crimes. Although the participation rate was 53.6%, only about 0.3% of the Serb community voted. (Serbs retained an allocation of 10 seats in the Assembly, but continued to boycott the provisional institutions.) On 8 March 2005 Haradinaj, indicted by the ICTY on 37 charges, resigned as Prime Minister and surrendered to the Tribunal. On 23 March a new Government, led by Bajram Kosumi, also of the AAK, was established.</p>
                         <p>Following a UN review stating that the Kosovo Government had made significant progress towards establishing executive, legislative and judicial institutions, on 24 October 2005 the UN Security Council endorsed the initiation of final status negotiations. In November the new UN Special Envoy for the Future Status Process for Kosovo, former Finnish President Martti Ahtisaari, commenced separate discussions with Serbian and Kosovo leaders. Following Rugova’s death in January 2006, the Assembly elected Fatmir Sejdiu of the LDK as President on 10 February. On 1 March Kosumi resigned as Prime Minister. The Assembly approved Agim Çeku, a former UÇK chief of staff, as his successor. Meanwhile, final status negotiations between Kosovo and Serbian government delegations commenced in Vienna, Austria, on 20-21 February. The Presidents and Prime Ministers of Serbia and Kosovo attended the discussions for the first time in July; the Kosovo delegation reiterated demands for full independence, while the Serbian leaders maintained that Serbia would not accept a loss of territory.</p>
                         <p>
            On 2 February 2007 Ahtisaari presented recommendations for the future status of Kosovo, but subsequently concluded that there was no prospect of achieving a negotiated agreement. On 26 March Ahtisaari submitted to the UN Security Council a finalized proposal, recommending independence for Kosovo, initially under international supervision. Kosovo was to adopt a constitution, flag and anthem, and be granted rights to membership of international organizations. An International Civilian Representative, operating under a UN and 
            <xr pageref="Y" ref="WB02047.IO.TXT">European Union (EU)</xr>
             mandate, would be appointed to supervise the implementation of the settlement, and would be empowered to veto legislation and dismiss local officials. KFOR would continue to provide security in the province, while the EU would deploy a police mission to assist in the development of law enforcement institutions. Although Serbia rejected the proposal, on 5 April Ahtisaari’s proposal was approved by 100 of the 101 votes cast in the Kosovo Assembly. Further negotiations between the Serbian and Kosovo delegations failed to resolve the impasse.
          </p>
                         <p>In legislative elections, held on 17 November 2007, the PDK obtained 37 seats, while the LDK received 25 seats. With a boycott of the elections by Serb parties, a participation rate of about 43% was recorded. Following a coalition agreement between the PDK and the LDK, on 9 January 2008 a Government headed by Thaçi was approved by the Assembly. With both main ruling parties in favour of independence, Thaçi confirmed to the Assembly that a declaration of independence was imminent. On the same day Sejdiu was re-elected President in the Assembly for a term that was extended to five years.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="KS.IS.12646928551" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Declaration of Independence</heading>
                         <p>On 17 February 2008 the Assembly endorsed a declaration establishing the province as the sovereign and independent Republic of Kosovo (Kosova), based on Ahtisaari's Comprehensive Proposal for the Kosovo Status Settlement and in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244 (of 1999). Serbia protested that the declaration contravened international law and demanded its annulment. An emergency meeting of the UN Security Council failed to agree on a new resolution, as the Russian Federation and the People’s Republic of China opposed Kosovo’s independence. Several countries, including Albania, France, the USA and the United Kingdom, extended recognition to Kosovo on 18 February 2008, and other states followed. On 28 February the International Steering Group for Kosovo appointed a Dutch diplomat, Pieter Feith, already the EU Special Representative, as an International Civilian Representative. An EU Rule of Law Mission in Kosovo (EULEX), comprising some 1,900 personnel, was to be deployed to help maintain public order. In March a member of UNMIK was killed in clashes between Serb protesters and UNMIK and KFOR troops in Mitrovicë. On 9 April the Assembly adopted a new Constitution, following its approval by Feith. The Constitution, which declared Kosovo to be an independent and sovereign state, was to enter into effect in June, when UNMIK was officially to transfer its functions to the Kosovo authorities. However, it became evident that the deployment of EULEX would not proceed as envisaged, owing to the refusal of Kosovo Serbs and the Serbian Government to accept an EU mission. Consequently, UNMIK’s mandate remained in force.</p>
                         <p>The new Constitution entered into effect on 15 June 2008. The NATO Secretary-General announced the dissolution of the Kosovo Protection Corps (KPC—formed in 1999 largely on the basis of the UÇK) and the establishment of a multi-ethnic Kosovo Security Force (KSF). Following polls conducted among Kosovo Serbs on 11 May 2008, without the recognition of the Kosovo Government, but supported by Serbia, on 28 June a parallel legislature comprising representatives of the Serb community from 26 municipalities, the `Assembly of the Community of Municipalities of the Autonomous Province of Kosovo and Metohija’, was convened in Mitrovicë.</p>
                         <p>Following the continued refusal of Kosovo Serbs to accept the deployment of EULEX, on 26 November 2008 the UN Security Council endorsed a plan presented by the UN Secretary-General, under which officials in the Serb-majority areas would receive directives from a reduced UNMIK contingent. On 9 December EULEX began deployment throughout the country, including in Mitrovicë; it was later confirmed that an UNMIK presence was to remain in the country indefinitely under Resolution 1244. In January 2009 the KPC was dissolved and replaced by the KSF.</p>
                         <p>Local elections (the first polls since independence) took place on 15 November and 13 December 2009. According to the Central Election Commission (CEC), the PDK secured the largest number of municipalities. A government reorganization was effected in March 2010, in which former Prime Minister Rexhepi was appointed Minister of Internal Affairs. On 30 May unauthorized elections were organized to the Serb `Assembly’ in Mitrovicë. In July the appeals chamber of the ICTY overturned the Tribunal’s acquittal of Haradinaj in April 2008, ordering a retrial. (Haradinaj was again acquitted in November 2012.)</p>
                         <p>
            In response to a Serbian challenge to Kosovo’s declaration of independence, in July 2010 the 
            <xr pageref="Y" ref="IO-UN.527">International Court of Justice (ICJ)</xr>
             issued a non-binding, advisory opinion that Kosovo’s declaration of independence had not breached international law or Resolution 1244. In early September the UN General Assembly adopted a resolution, supported by Serbia and the 27 EU member states, urging a direct dialogue between Serbia and Kosovo. On 27 September Sejdiu resigned as President of Kosovo, following a ruling by the Constitutional Council that holding the office was incompatible with his chairmanship of the LDK. In October Sejdiu withdrew the LDK from the coalition Government, which lost its majority in the Assembly. In November the Assembly adopted a motion of no confidence in the Government, after Thaçi urged PDK deputies to support it and bring an end to the institutional crisis; early legislative elections were scheduled.
          </p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="KS.13662739661" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Unsupervised Independence</heading>
                         <p>Assembly elections on 12 December 2010 were again boycotted by Serb voters. After complaints of major irregularities were upheld, polls were repeated in five municipalities on 9 January 2011 and in Mitrovicë on 23 January. According to the final results, the PDK secured 34 seats, while the LDK won 27 seats; an ethnic Albanian radical nationalist party, Vetëvendosje (Self-Determination), was placed third, with 14 seats, followed by the AAK, with 12 seats, and a coalition led by the Aleanca Kosova e Re (AKR—New Kosovo Alliance), with eight seats. On 22 February the Pres­ident of the AKR, Behgjet Pacolli, was elected as the President of Kosovo in a third round of voting in the new Assembly (with opposition parties boycotting the session). On the same day Thaçi was re-elected as Prime Minister and the appointment of a new coalition Government was approved. In March Kosovo and Serbian delegations began an EU-supported dialogue in Brussels, Belgium. Following a challenge by the LDK, on 28 March the Constitutional Court ruled Pacolli’s election to be illegitimate, owing to the absence of the requisite parliamentary quorum; he resigned on 30 March. After the PDK, the LDK and the AKR reached agreement on a candidate, on 7 April the deputy director of the Kosovo police, Maj.-Gen. Atifete Jahjaga, was elected President by 80 votes in the Assembly. The Government announced that Jahjaga would serve in an interim capacity (pending constitutional reforms to allow the direct election of a President). Pacolli was subsequently appointed as First Deputy Prime Minister. (In July 2012 the Constitutional Court ruled that the parliamentary resolution electing Jahjaga as President on an interim basis had been illegitimate, entitling her to remain in office until 2016.)</p>
                         <p>In July 2011 a Kosovo special police officer was killed by Kosovo Serbs, who resisted an attempt by the police to assume control of two crossing-points at the border with Serbia under the supervision of KFOR and EULEX. Kosovo Serbs continued violently to obstruct government efforts to establish authority; in September EULEX units were deployed to take control of two border posts after local Serbs erected barricades. Kosovo Serbs organized a referendum in four northern municipalities on 14-15 February 2012; 99.7% of those participating in the municipalities rejected the authority of Kosovo state institutions. On 15 February the Kosovo Assembly adopted a resolution declaring the referendum to be illegal. Barricades at the border crossings with Serbia were removed later that month, following an agreement between the Serb authorities in northern Kosovo and EULEX. However, after nationalist Tomislav Nikolić was elected as the new Serbian President in May, progress at the dialogue in Brussels stalled.</p>
                         <p>The International Steering Group announced on 2 July 2012 that Kosovo’s period of supervised independence would end in September, three months earlier than anticipated. On 11 July Kosovo applied for membership of NATO’s Partnership for Peace’ programme. On 7 September the Assembly adopted constitutional amendments required to permit the end of supervised independence. Kosovo officially attained full independence on 10 September, with the closure of the International Civilian Office; however, under an agreement with the EU, the mandate of EULEX was renewed, while KFOR troops and a small UNMIK contingent also remained in Kosovo. Following EU and US pressure, in October dialogue on the normalization of relations between Kosovo and Serbia resumed in Brussels, with a meeting between Thaçi and new Serbian Prime Minister Ivica Dačić. A border management agreement between Kosovo and Serbia, providing for the opening of crossing-points, was reached on 4 December.</p>
                         <p>In January 2013 the EU-mediated discussions resulted in Kosovo’s appointment of a liaison officer to Serbia, and the Serbian Government subsequently appointed a counterpart. However, there were continued attacks against Kosovo government targets in Prishtina, in protest against the negoti­ations in Brussels. In February Jahjaga and Nikolić met for the first time, with EU mediation, in Brussels; they pledged to continue dialogue, which gained momentum as Serbia sought to secure the opening of EU accession negotiations.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Agreement with Serbia</heading>
                         <p>On 19 April 2013 Thaçi and Dačić initialled an accord in Brussels, which confirmed that ethnic Serb-dominated northern Kosovo was to be administered by the central authorities, while retaining autonomy in some areas; the agreement allowed both Kosovo and Serbia to seek EU accession without obstruction. On 22 May Dačić and Thaçi signed an agreement in Brussels on implementation of the EU-mediated accord, under which all members of Serb security bodies in Kosovo would be integrated into the state structures. Amid protests organized by Vetëvendosje, on 27 June the Assembly ratified the accord with Serbia, with 84 votes cast in favour. On the following day the Council of the EU authorized the opening of negoti­ations on a Stabilization and Association Agreement (SAA). As part of reconciliation efforts, on 11 July the Assembly adopted legislation granting amnesty from prosecution for various crimes that had not resulted in death or injury.</p>
                         <p>Local government elections on 3 November and 1 December 2013 were contested for the first time by representatives of the Serb population in the north. There was violence in Mitrovicë and another predominantly Serb municipality, where polls were repeated. Notably, Vetëvendosje secured control of Prishtina (previously held by the LDK). In April 2014, after Serb deputies boycotted a parliamentary vote on the proposed creation of a national army, the main political leaders decided that early legislative elections would be held, and on 7 May the Assembly was dissolved.</p>
                         <p>Elections to the Assembly were conducted on 8 June 2014. Thaçi’s PDK (in coalition with four smaller parties) received 37 of the 120 seats, while the LDK was placed second, with 30 seats, and Vetëvendosje third, with 16 seats. The AAK obtained 11 seats, Srpska Lista (Serb List) nine seats, and the Nisma për Kosovën (NISMA—Initiative for Kosovo)—established by former members of the PDK—six seats. Since the PDK had failed to secure a parliamentary majority, its constitutional right to form a new government was challenged by an alliance formed by the LDK, the AAK and NISMA, with the support of Vetëvendosje. In mid-November President Jahjaga mediated a compromise agreement between Thaçi and LDK Chairman Isa Mustafa. On 8 December Kadri Veseli of the PDK was elected as President of the Assembly, and on the following day a new coalition Government, headed by Mustafa, was approved in the Assembly; Thaçi became Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, and representatives of the LDK and the Srpska Lista also received deputy premierships.</p>
                         <p>Unrest was prompted by controversy over the loss-making Trepça mining complex in Mitrovicë in January 2015: draft legislation to transfer it to state control was revoked, following opposition from Serbia, which claimed ownership of 75% of the complex. Vetëvendosje announced a series of protests to demand the nationalization of Trepça and the resignation of the ethnic Serb Minister of Communities and Resettlement, Aleksandar Jablanović, after he referred disparagingly to Albanian protesters. On 27 January opposition rallies in central Prishtina became violent, and some 170 people were injured. In early February Mustafa announced that Jablanović had been removed from the Government. Meanwhile, normalization discussions between the Kosovo and Serbian delegations resumed in Brussels, with EU mediation, and agreement was reached on the integration of courts in the north into the central judiciary. In April Mustafa appointed Dalibor Jevtić of Srpska Lista as Minister of Communities and Resettlement.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="KS.14566851781" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Election of Thaçi as President</heading>
                         <p>On 3 August 2015 the Assembly adopted constitutional changes and legislation providing for the creation of a Kosovo Specialist Chambers (KSC) and a Specialist Prosecutor’s Office (SPO), within the justice system of Kosovo (but based in The Hague, Netherlands), to investigate war crimes associated with the conflict in Kosovo. Under EU pressure, on 25 August the Kosovo and Serbian authorities signed a further agreement towards the normalization of relations, notably allowing the creation of an `Association of Serb Municipalities’, which would be granted the status of a legal entity. However, the accord precipitated a series of violent protests, both outside the parliamentary building and by Vetëvendosje deputies within the Assembly. A ruling of the Constitutional Court on 10 November suspended implementation of the agreement. However, Vetëvendosje deputies continued the disruption to demand that the Government revoke both the 2013 accord with Serbia and a controversial border demarcation agreement with Montenegro (approved by the Government on 5 August). The arrest of 87 Vetëvendosje members at the party headquarters, in connection with the disturbances, took place in late November. The Constitutional Court endorsed the agreement with Serbia on 24 December, while stipulating that certain terms be revised. Meanwhile, the EU had officially signed the SAA with Kosovo on 27 October, and it was unanimously ratified by the Assembly on 2 November. The SAA entered into force on 1 April 2016.</p>
                         <p>Despite efforts by President Jahjaga to mediate in the political crisis, the opposition demanded further pre-term parliamentary elections, and organized a mass protest to coincide with independence anniversary celebrations on 17 February 2016. Subsequent parliamentary sessions were again obstructed by tear gas attacks by opposition deputies. Protesters established an encampment in central Prishtina in an effort to enforce their demands, and also declared opposition to Thaçi’s candidacy, which was supported by the government coalition, in a forthcoming parliamentary ballot to select a new President. However, on 26 February, amid clashes between opposition supporters and police outside the Assembly, Thaçi was elected President in a third round of voting, securing 71 votes. He was inaugurated on 8 April. In a government reorganization at the beginning of June, Enver Hoxhaj succeeded Thaçi as Minister of Foreign Affairs. On 14 June the Council of the EU extended EULEX’s mandate for two years.</p>
                         <p>The Assembly voted in October 2016 to place the Trepça mining complex under government control to avert bankruptcy proceedings, despite further Serb protests. In November the death in prison of a Vetëvendosje activist, Astrit Dehari, who had been detained in August in connection with a grenade attack in the Assembly, prompted large opposition protests in Prishtina; an autopsy concluded that Dehari had committed suicide.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="KS.15186392051" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Haradinaj Elected Prime Minister</heading>
                         <p>In early January 2017 the Kosovo Government condemned the arrest of AAK leader and former premier Haradinaj by French border police, under an international warrant issued by Serbia in 2004. The attempted reopening of a railway line linking Belgrade to the Serb-controlled part of North Mitrovicë intensified tensions in mid-January. Kosovo special police were deployed to prevent the first train on the line, which bore the slogan `Kosovo is Serbia’ in some 20 languages, from entering Kosovo, denouncing it as a provocation. Serbian President Nikolić recalled the train, and threatened to dispatch troops to Kosovo. An EU-mediated meeting between Kosovo and Serbian delegations was convened on 24 January in Brussels. In March Thaçi submitted to the Assembly legislation providing for the reconfiguration of the KSF as a national army. The NATO Secretary-General subsequently expressed serious concerns at the proposal. An extradition request against Haradinaj by Serbia was rejected by a French court on 27 April, when he was released and returned to Prishtina. The new KSC and SPO became fully operational in The Hague in July.</p>
                         <p>In May 2017 a parliamentary motion of no confidence in Mustafa’s Government, proposed by the NISMA, was supported by 78 deputies, amid continued controversy over the border demarcation agreement with Montenegro. Pre-term legislative elections were scheduled for 11 June, when a coalition led by the PDK, and also including the AAK and the NISMA, secured 39 seats, followed by Vetëvendosje, with 32 seats, and an LDK-led alliance, also comprising the AKR, with 29 seats. Following unsuccessful efforts to form a new government, in early September party leader Pacolli announced the AKR’s departure from the alliance with the LDK, in favour of joining a PDK-led ruling coalition. On 9 September a Government under the premiership of Haradinaj was approved by 61 votes cast in the Assembly. The AKR received several posts, including that of First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, which was awarded to Pacolli.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Suspension of Dialogue with Serbia</heading>
                         <p>In November 2017 four opposition members linked to Vetëvendosje were sentenced to prison terms in connection with the August 2016 attack in the Assembly. Albin Kurti became leader of Vetëvendosje in January 2018. Meanwhile, in mid-January the murder of Oliver Ivanović, the leader of a small Kosovo Serb party, in Mitrovicë was denounced by Serbia, and resulted in the temporary suspension of the EU-mediated dialogue. (Six suspects, including four Kosovo police officers, were charged as part of an organized criminal group in connection with Ivanović’s murder in December 2019, and trial proceedings began in 2021; two other suspects remained at large.)</p>
                         <p>The long-delayed border agreement with Montenegro was ratified by the required two-thirds’ majority in the Assembly on 21 March 2018, despite attempts by Vetëvendosje deputies to prevent the vote. On 26 March the Kosovo authorities arrested the head of the Serbian government office with responsibility for Kosovo, who had entered Mitrovicë in breach of a ban, and subsequently expelled him from Kosovo. Shortly afterwards, Haradinaj dismissed the AKR Minister of Internal Affairs Flamur Sefaj, together with the head of the Kosovo Intelligence Agency. The mandate of EULEX was extended for two years in June, with revised responsibilities to monitor and advise Kosovo’s rule of law institutions; its judicial executive responsibilities were transferred to the Kosovo authorities.</p>
                         <p>The Kosovo authorities in November 2018 imposed a 100% customs tariff on goods imported from Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, in response to `acts of aggression’ from Serbia (believed to relate to Serbian obstruction of Kosovo’s application to join the international police agency Interpol). The Serb mayors of North Mitrovicë and of three other Serb-majority municipalities resigned in protest at the decision, while the Serbian Government suspended participation in the mediated dialogue. On 14 December the Assembly at the second reading approved the legislation providing for the transition of the KSF into a national army; Serbian President Aleksandar Vučić immediately reiterated Serbia’s opposition to the creation of a Kosovo army.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Economic Normalization Agreements</heading>
                         <p>On 19 July 2019 Prime Minister Haradinaj resigned, after he was summoned for questioning by the Kosovo SPO in The Hague in connection with alleged UÇK war crimes. On 22 August the Assembly voted in favour of its dissolution, and early legislative elections followed on 6 October. On 11 November the electoral complaints authority ordered a recount of votes from more than one-half of the polling stations, following opposition objections. According to the final results, Vetëvendosje was narrowly first-placed, obtaining 29 seats (with 26.3% of the votes), followed by the LDK, with 28 seats (24.6%), the PDK, with 24 seats (21.2%), and an AAK-led coalition, with 13 seats (11.5%). A voter turnout of 44.6% was recorded.</p>
                         <p>Following mediation by the new US special envoy on the suspended Kosovo-Serbia dialogue, Richard Grenell, on 20 January 2020 a letter of intent was signed in Berlin, Germany, providing for the restoration of commercial flights between Prishtina and Belgrade. On the same day President Thaçi granted Vetëvendosje leader Kurti a mandate to become the next premier. On 2 February Vetëvendosje and the LDK reached a power-sharing agreement, and a new, coalition Government, headed by Kurti, was approved by 66 votes in the Assembly on the following day. Vetëvendosje and the LDK held the majority of ministerial portfolios; Vjosa Osmani of the LDK was elected as the new parliamentary President. An accord on the restoration of rail links between Kosovo and Serbia was signed in Munich, Germany, on 14 February.</p>
                         <p>Following the first cases of COVID-19 in Kosovo, on 17 March 2020 President Thaçi declared a state of emergency. However, Kurti, together with several other government members, opposed the measure, and on the following day dismissed the Minister of Internal Affairs, Agim Veliu of the LDK, for publicly supporting it. The LDK protested that Veliu’s dismissal was in breach of the coalition agreement, and subsequently brought a motion of no confidence against Kurti’s Government, which was adopted by 82 votes cast in the Assembly on 25 March. Following increased pressure, at the end of March the Government announced the removal of the 100% customs tariff on imports from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, although new barriers under a principle of `reciprocity’ (of equal treatment for the citizens of both countries) were to be imposed against Serbia. On 23 April Thaçi granted the LDK a mandate to form a new government and the party nominated First Deputy Prime Minister Avdullah Hoti as Prime Minister.</p>
                         <p>On 28 May 2020 the Constitutional Court ruled that Thaçi had not acted in breach of the Constitution by awarding Hoti the prime ministerial mandate without new legislative elections. A coalition Government, led by Hoti and including representatives of the LDK, the NISMA, the AAK and Srpska Lista, received legislative approval on 3 June, with 61 votes. Three days later, Hoti’s Government revoked the measures on Serbian imports, allowing the resumption of the EU-mediated dialogue with Serbia. However, a meeting between Thaçi and Serbian President Vučić in Washington, DC, USA, scheduled for 27 June, was cancelled shortly beforehand, after the release of a statement announcing that the SPO had filed an indictment with the KSC on 24 April, charging President Thaçi, PDK Chairman Veseli and others with crimes against humanity and war crimes committed in 1998-99, including murder, enforced disappearance, persecution and torture. Meanwhile, the mandate of EULEX was extended until 14 June 2021.</p>
                         <p>With mediation by Grenell, the delayed Kosovo-Serbia summit meeting took place between Prime Minister Hoti and Vučić in Washington, DC, on 3-4 September 2020. Separate agreements providing for 16 `economic normalization’ measures were signed by the two leaders, in the presence of US President Donald Trump, on 4 September. These included an agreement on mutual diplomatic recognition between Kosovo and Israel; an undertaking by Serbia to suspend its campaign against international recognition of Kosovo for one year, during which time Kosovo would not apply for membership of international organizations; commitments to resolve issues relating to missing persons and the rehabilitation of refugees from the 1990s conflict; and the development of various infrastructural links between Serbia and Kosovo, with US financing. (Diplomatic relations between Kosovo and Israel were established officially on 1 February 2021.)</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Vetëvendosje Return to Government</heading>
                         <p>Thaçi formally resigned from office on 5 November 2020, and was immediately transferred to detention at The Hague; Osmani (who had been expelled from the LDK in June, owing to disagreements with its leadership, and later allied with Vetëvendosje) became acting President of Kosovo. Following the indictment of Veseli, Hoxhaj became acting Chairman of the PDK.</p>
                         <p>Ruling on a challenge brought by Vetëvendosje in June 2020, on 21 December the Constitutional Court decided that the vote of a representative from an ethnic minority party cast in favour of Hoti’s Government had been illegitimate (owing to a previous conviction for fraud), thereby annulling the parliamentary majority approval of the Government. In accordance with the ruling, on 6 January 2021 Osmani dissolved the Assembly and scheduled legislative elections for 14 February, with the Hoti Government remaining in office in an acting capacity. On 29 January the Supreme Court barred Kurti and two other Vetëvendosje candidates from contesting the elections, owing to the fact that they had criminal convictions received within the preceding three years. Nevertheless, according to the final election results, issued by the CEC on 4 March, Vetëvendosje secured some 50.3% of the votes cast and 58 seats, while support for the PDK and the LDK fell to its lowest recorded level, at only 17.0% of the votes and 19 seats, and 12.7% and 15 seats, respectively. Srpska Lista received 5.1% of the votes and 10 seats, and the AAK 7.1% and eight seats. Voter turnout was recorded at 48.8%. Meanwhile, on 9 March Meliza Haradinaj-Stublla resigned as Minister of Foreign Affairs and from membership of the AAK, amid media allegations that her husband had bribed officials to secure her election to the Assembly. On 22 March Glauk Konjufca of Vetëvendosje was elected as President of the Assembly and acting President of Kosovo, and immediately awarded Kurti a mandate to form a new administration; Kurti’s Government, principally comprising Vetëvendosje members and affiliated politicians, was approved by the Assembly later that day. Besnik Bislimi of Vetëvendosje became First Deputy Prime Minister and Donika Gërvalla-Schwarz of allied party Guxo (Dare—founded by Osmani in January) became Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs. On 4 April Osmani was elected as President of Kosovo, with the support of 71 votes cast in the Assembly. In June the Council of the EU extended the mandate of EULEX for a further two years.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="RS.IS.16838192131" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>New EU-mediated Agreement</heading>
                         <p>On 20 September 2021 the Kosovo authorities introduced new regulations obliging Serbian-registered vehicles to use temporary Kosovo licence plates while in Kosovo, under the `reciprocity’ policy. Special police forces were deployed after Kosovo Serb protesters blockaded two main crossing points at the northern border. Serbian President Vučić dispatched troops to the border, while Albania’s Prime Minister, Edi Rama, during a visit to Prishtina, expressed support for the measures imposed by Kurti’s Government. At the end of September it was announced that a mediated interim agreement had been reached to end the blockade, under which state symbols on vehicle licence plates were to be covered at border crossings.</p>
                         <p>
            The first trials of former UÇK commanders began at the KSC in mid-September 2021. Local elections were held in Kosovo on 17 October, with a second round on 14 November. 
            <!--https://www.freiheit.org/western-balkans/local-elections-kosovo-->
            The results represented a defeat for Vetëvendosje, which won only four of the 38 municipalities, while the PDK secured nine municipalities, the LDK seven and the AAK five. In Prishtina, Përparim Rama of the LDK was narrowly elected as Mayor in the second round (a post that had been held by Vetëvendosje since 2013). A voter turnout of 37.9% was reported.
          </p>
                         <p>Kosovo submitted an application for membership of the Council of Europe in May 2022 (following Russia’s expulsion from the organization in response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine in February), prompting Serbia to intensify its derecognition campaign. The Kosovo authorities at the end of July postponed the implementation of new regulations that would compel the Serb population to replace car licence plates issued by Serbia with Kosovo ones, after violent protests in the north. However, a meeting between President Vučić and Kurti in Brussels on 18 August ended without progress, and on 1 September Kurti issued a new deadline of 31 October for compliance with the regulations. The authorities accordingly began implementation of a licence plate conversion plan on 1 November, prompting the mass resignation of Serbs from government, local council and other official posts, including the Minister of Communities and Returns, Goran Rakić of Srpska Lista. Following urgent EU-mediated negotiations in Brussels, on 23 November an agreement was reached under which the Kosovo Government was to suspend action related to the re-registration of vehicles, while Serbia was no longer to issue licence plates with Serbian acronyms for Kosovo’s cities.</p>
                         <p>The Serbian Government denounced Kurti’s decision in early December 2022 to appoint Nenad Rašić of the Progresivna Demokratska Stranka (Progressive Democratic Party) as the new Minister of Communities and Returns. Further protests and unrest in northern Kosovo were precipitated on 10 December by the arrest of a former Serb police officer, Dejan Pantić, on suspicion of involvement in an attack on CEC offices in North Mitrovicë. Serb protesters erected barricades in several locations in northern Kosovo, blocking two main border crossings with Serbia, and subsequently exchanged fire with police. Meanwhile, on 15 December Kosovo officially submitted an application for EU membership. In its first war crimes verdict, the KSC on 16 December sentenced former UÇK unit commander Salih Mustafa to 26 years’ imprisonment. As Serb protesters erected further blockades, on 26 December the Serbian Government placed security forces deployed on the border with Kosovo on `full combat readiness’. However, following increased pressure from the EU and the USA, and a court decision to release Pantić to house arrest, Vučić announced that the protesters had agreed to begin removal of the barricades, which duly proceeded on 29 December.</p>
                         <p>President Vučić reported that EU and US representatives had, at a meeting on 20 January 2023, pressurized him to accept a new, 11-point EU proposal on the normalization of relations with Kosovo. Particular contention surrounded the previously agreed Association of Serb Municipalities; protests against its formation took place in Prishtina at the end of January as the US embassy hosted the first meeting between Kosovo Albanian and Serb representatives on the issue. Kurti and Vučić met for EU-mediated discussions in Brussels on 27 February, reaching preliminary agreement on the EU plan, which provided for the development of good relations between Kosovo and Serbia, with the exchange of permanent missions. A further meeting between Kurti and Vučić in Ohrid, North Macedonia, on 18 March resulted in reported agreement for its implementation; however, no documents were signed, due to the refusal of Vučić. The trial of Thaçi, Veseli, and two other former senior UÇK figures, Rexhep Selimi and Jakup Krasniqi, began at the KSC on 3 April; the defendants pleaded not guilty to the charges.</p>
                         <p>Delayed elections for vacant council seats in North Mitrovicë and three other Serb-majority municipalities took place on 23 April 2023. However, only some 3.5% of the electorate participated in the polls, owing to a Srpska Lista boycott, resulting in the election of ethnic Albanian candidates. In late May there were violent demonstrations, as ethnic Serb protesters attempted to prevent the new ethnic Albanian officials from taking office; at least 30 KFOR peacekeepers and 50 demonstrators were injured. The EU and the USA subsequently imposed punitive measures against Kosovo due to the Government’s perceived failure to take the necessary measures to restore security in the northern region. Meanwhile, in early June the Council of the EU extended the mandate of EULEX until 14 June 2025.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Recent Developments: Further Disputes with Serbia</heading>
                         <p>A meeting between Kurti and Vučić in Brussels on 14 September 2023 yielded no progress. A Kosovo police officer was shot dead and two injured in an attack by an armed group in the northern village of Bajskë/Banjska on 24 September; three members of the group were also killed and eight Kosovo Serb suspects arrested (of whom three were remanded in custody). The Kosovo Government accused Srpska Lista of involvement in `terrorist’ attacks and also accused Vučić of supporting the operation. Shortly afterwards, the deputy leader of Srpska Lista, Milan Radoičić, who had fled to Belgrade, declared that he had organized and led the attack without the knowledge of Srpska Lista or the Serbian authorities, and resigned from his party post. In early October Radoičić was arrested and questioned in Serbia on charges of procuring weapons, but was subsequently released. Later that month Srpska Lista elected a new party leadership. French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni mediated a further meeting between Kurti and Vučić in Brussels on 26 October, after which the three leaders issued a statement urging commitment to implementing the Ohrid agreement. In early December Interpol issued an arrest warrant for Radoičić and 18 others over their suspected involvement in the Bajskë attack.</p>
                         <p>
            In early December 2023 the KSC imposed restrictions on visits to Thaçi, Veseli and Selimi in detention, citing alleged attempts to interfere with witnesses and obstruct their testimonies. On 14 December the KSC Appeals Panel upheld the 2022 conviction of Salih Mustafa. By that time Kosovo prosecutors were reported to have filed 33 war crimes indictments since 2018, charging a total of 89 suspects (including 
            <i>in absentia</i>
            ). 
          </p>
                         <p>On 25 December 2023 the Serbian Government announced that the use of Kosovo official licence plates would be permitted in Serbian territory from 1 January 2024. The Kosovo Government on 4 January announced the reciprocal decision to allow the entry of vehicles with uncovered Serbian licence plates, thereby ending the lengthy dispute on the issue. Following approval by the Council of the EU in March 2023 and by the European Parliament in April, from January 2024 Kosovo citizens were allowed visa-free travel within the EU’s Schengen area for up to 90 days in a 180-day period (but were not permitted to work there).</p>
                         <p>At the beginning of February 2024 a Kosovo central bank regulation on the sole use of the euro for commercial transactions, which effectively prohibited the use of the Serbian dinar in Serb-majority regions, officially entered into force; the EU and the USA expressed concern at the decision. In early February Serbian-funded `parallel’ facilities in three municipalities were reportedly closed by the police and a vehicle transporting Serbian dinars was seized. The ban was denounced by the Serbian Government, causing Vučić to request a special session of the UN Security Council over the issue, while local Serbs protested against the new regulation in North Mitrovicë on 12 February. In a gesture of compromise, the central bank announced an extension of the transitional period for sole use of the euro from one to three months and measures to facilitate implementation of the policy. On 9 March the CEC approved the organization of a referendum on 21 April on the removal of the ethnic Albanian mayors elected in the four Serb-majority municipalities, after petitions signed by local citizens in January demanding their dismissal met legal requirements; the EU welcomed the decision. However, Srpska Lista rejected the initiative, accusing the Government of a campaign of pressure and intimidation against local Serbs, and on 21 April most residents of the four municipalities consequently boycotted the referendum (which was thereby rendered invalid). Meanwhile, on 16 April the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe overwhelmingly adopted a recommendation in favour of Kosovo’s accession to the body.</p>
                         <!--KFOR troops at Feb 2024: https://www.nato.int/nato_static_fl2014/assets/pdf/2024/2/pdf/2024-02-14-KFOR-Placemat.pdf devts in the north: https://www.crisisgroup.org/europe-central-asia/balkans/kosovo/269-northern-kosovo-asserting-sovereignty-amid-divided-loyalties-->
                    </is-section>
               </is-section>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="KS.IS.4" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Constitution and Government</heading>
               <p>
        A new Constitution entered into effect in Kosovo on 15 June 2008, after the Kuvendi i Kosovës/Skupština Kosova (Kosovo Assembly) adopted a declaration of independence on 17 February. This declaration was based on the Comprehensive Proposal for the Kosovo Status Settlement drawn up by the UN Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for the Future Status Process for Kosovo, Martti Ahtisaari, and in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244 (of 1999). A 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="WB02047.IO.TXT">European Union</xr>
         Rule of Law Mission in Kosovo (EULEX), which became operational under the overall authority of the UN in December, was deployed in Kosovo to maintain public order and security, and to assist in the development of judicial institutions. A reduced UN Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) remained in the country under Resolution 1244. Kosovo’s period of supervised independence officially ended on 10 September 2012, with the closure of the International Civilian Office.
      </p>
               <p>Under the Constitution, the Kosovo Assembly comprises 120 deputies, of whom 100 are directly elected (the remaining 20 seats are reserved for the elected representatives of specified minority ethnic communities, including eight allocated to Serbs). The Assembly has a nine-member Presidency. The President of Kosovo is elected by the Assembly for a five-year term (renewable once). The President nominates a Prime Minister, who proposes a Government for approval by the Assembly. Kosovo comprises seven regions, which are divided into 38 municipa­lities.</p>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="KS.IS.12646929181" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Regional and International Co-operation</heading>
               <p>
        Following Kosovo’s unilateral declaration of independence on 17 February 2008,
        <!--have changed this as withdrawal by some states disputed-->
         a total of 114 UN member states, including 22 of the 27 member states of the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="WB02047.IO.TXT">European Union</xr>
        , had extended recognition to Kosovo as an independent sovereign state by February 2024 (although Serbia alleged that at least 27 countries had withdrawn their initial recognition). Kosovo joined the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="OTHER.IO.CASEE.55">Central European Free Trade Agreement</xr>
         in July 2007, and the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="EBRD.IO">European Bank for Reconstruction and Development</xr>
         in December 2012.
      </p>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="KS.IS.12" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Economic Affairs</heading>
               <!--First paragraph has been updated from World bank, sectoral shares have been calculated from official website data, sectoral growths have been calculated from UN national accounts main aggregates database, Inflation has been updated from stats survey and unemployment rate has been updated from Kosovo in figures 2010. AkS (31/1/2013)-->
               <p id="KS.IS.2343534">
        In 2022, according to estimates by the World Bank, the gross national income (GNI) of Kosovo, measured at average 2020-22 prices, was US $9,853m., equivalent to $5,590 per head (or $14,870 per head on an international purchasing-power parity basis). During 2013-22, it was estimated, the population decreased at an average annual rate of 0.3%. During 2013-22 gross domestic product (GDP) per head grew, in real terms, at an average annual rate of 4.4%. According to the World Bank, overall GDP grew, in real terms, at an average annual rate of 4.0% in 2013-22; real GDP increased by 
        <!--https://data.worldbank.org/country/kosovo https://bqk-kos.org/eag/ https://askapi.rks-gov.net/Custom/8b6d63f0-9894-47a2-a54b-30c82ecbf7b4.pdf-->
        5.2% in 2022.
      </p>
               <p id="KS.SS.090897">Agriculture (including hunting, forestry and fishing) contributed 9.2% of GDP in 2022, when the sector engaged 2.2% of the employed labour force. The principal crops are wheat, potatoes and peppers. According to World Bank figures, real agricultural GDP increased at an average annual rate of 4.5% during 2013-22. The GDP of the sector increased by 4.5% in 2022.</p>
               <p id="KS.IS.23564">Industry (including mining, manufacturing, construction and power) contributed 33.9% of GDP in 2022, when the sector engaged 24.4% of the employed labour force. According to the World Bank, real industrial GDP increased at an average annual rate of 3.4% during 2013-22; the GDP of the sector increased by 1.9% in 2022.</p>
               <p id="KS.IS.29675">The mining sector contributed 1.9% of GDP in 2022, when mining and quarrying engaged around 0.9% of the employed labour force. A principal mineral extracted is halloysite, a clay mineral used in the production of porcelain and bone china. Kosovo has some 14.7m. metric tons of proven lignite reserves. Lead, zinc, chromium and bauxite are also mined. The GDP of the sector increased by 2.9% in 2022.</p>
               <p>Manufacturing contributed 15.9% of GDP and engaged 8.9% of the employed labour force in 2022. The GDP of the sector increased by 5.6% in 2022.</p>
               <p>The construction sector contributed 10.7% of GDP and engaged 11.0% of the employed labour force in 2022. Sectoral GDP decreased by 3.1% in 2022.</p>
               <p id="KS.IS.26780984">Energy in Kosovo is derived principally from coal (which contributed 97.5% of total electricity generated in 2015). Imports of mineral fuels accounted for some 17.1% of the value of total imports in 2022.</p>
               <p id="KS.IS.905645">Services contributed some 56.9% of GDP in 2022, when the sector engaged 73.4% of the employed labour force. Important areas of the services sector include education, transport, storage and communications and hotels and restaurants. According to World Bank figures, real GDP in the services sector increased at an average annual rate of 3.9% during 2013-22; the GDP of the sector increased by 4.4% in 2022.</p>
               <p id="KS.IS.20098">In 2022 Kosovo recorded a visible merchandise trade deficit of €4,500.8m. and there was a deficit of €983.3m. on the current account of the balance of payments. In 2022 the principal source of imports was Türkiye, accounting for 14.9% of the total; other major sources were Germany, the People’s Republic of China, Serbia, Greece and North Macedonia. The principal market for exports in that year was the USA (taking 14.8% of total exports); other important purchasers were North Macedonia, Albania, Germany, Switzerland, Serbia and Italy. The main exports in 2022 were base metals, in particular iron and steel. Exports of miscellaneous manufactured articles, plastics and rubber articles, mineral products and prepared foodstuffs, beverages, spirits, vinegar and tobacco were also significant. The principal imports in that year were mineral products, prepared foodstuffs, beverages, spirits, vinegar and tobacco, machinery and mechanical products, base metals, vehicles and transport equipment, chemicals, and plastics and rubber.</p>
               <p id="KS.IS.896741">In 2022 Kosovo’s estimated overall budgetary deficit was calculated at €52m. In 2013-22 the rate of inflation in Kosovo increased at an average annual rate of 2.2%; consumer prices increased by 3.3% in 2021 and by 11.6% in 2022, according to official figures. The rate of unemployment in Kosovo was 12.6% in 2022, according to official estimates.</p>
               <!--Budget deficit https://www.kuvendikosoves.org/Uploads/Data/Documents/Lawno.08-L-260_YwaAsUa6dz.pdf-->
               <p id="KS.IS.289675">
        Following its declaration of independence in 2008, Kosovo remained one of the poorest territories in Europe, with high unemployment and a reliance on remittances from abroad, while the inability of state institutions to exert authority in Serb-dominated areas obstructed economic development. Despite the refusal of several 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="WB02047.IO.TXT">European Union (EU)</xr>
         member states to recognize Kosovo’s independence, a Stabilization and Association Agreement (SAA) between the EU and Kosovo entered into force in April 2016. `Economic normalization’ agreements between Kosovo and Serbia were signed in September 2020, providing for co-operation, particularly in the development of transport connections and infrastructure. In December Kosovo officially joined Albania’s power grid (separating from Serbia’s power network), with a Kosovo-Albanian interconnection line entering into operation. After an economic contraction in 2020, growth rebounded in 2021 at a rate of 10.7%, owing to the relaxation of containment measures imposed in response to the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, accompanied by restored consumer confidence. However, the global impact of war in Ukraine from February 2022, including elevated food and energy prices, necessitated tighter financial conditions and subdued growth, which slowed to 5.2
        
        % in that year. Amid severe unrest in the predominantly Serb north (see 
        <i>Domestic Political Affairs</i>
        ), on 15 December the Kosovo Government submitted an official application for EU membership. However, progress towards this objective was dependent on progress in the EU-mediated normalization discussions with Serbia. In mid-2023 the EU imposed punitive measures against Kosovo, including the suspension of pre-accession investment funding and of bodies established under the SAA, owing to rule of law concerns. Meanwhile, in May the IMF approved a two-year, precautionary Stand-By Arrangement (SBA—amounting to around €100m.) and Resilience and Sustainability Facility (RSF— €78m.) to support the Government’s reform measures. The first reviews under the two arrangements were completed in November, making available budget support of about €24.8m. under the SBA and €38.4m. under the RSF. The rate of GDP growth was 3.3% in 2023, according to the IMF, principally generated by diaspora-related travel services, and by an expanding information and communication technology sector, while the average annual rate of consumer price inflation fell to 5.2% in that year.
      </p>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="KS.IS.7" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Public Holidays</heading>
               <public-holidays>
                    <holiday-year>
                         <year>2025</year>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>1-2 January</date>
                              <holiday-name>New Year’s Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>7 January</date>
                              <holiday-name>Orthodox Christmas</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>17 February</date>
                              <holiday-name>Independence Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>
              1 April
              <endnoteref idref="KOS.IS.9" ref-symbol="*" />
                              </date>
                              <holiday-name>Small Bayram, end of Ramadan</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>9 April</date>
                              <holiday-name>Constitution Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>21 April</date>
                              <holiday-name>Catholic Easter</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>1 May</date>
                              <holiday-name>Labour Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>9 May</date>
                              <holiday-name>Europe Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>
              8 June
              <endnoteref idref="KOS.IS.9" ref-symbol="*" />
                              </date>
                              <holiday-name>Great Bayram, Feast of the Sacrifice</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>25 December</date>
                              <holiday-name>Catholic Christmas</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                    </holiday-year>
                    <endnote id="KOS.IS.9" ref-symbol="*">These holidays are dependent on the Islamic lunar calendar and may vary by one or two days from the dates given.</endnote>
               </public-holidays>
          </is-section>
     </is-section>
</intro-survey>