<?xml version="1.0"?>
<int-org-sectref id="SL447699" int-org-sectrefdtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" slfilename="other-9.io.sgm" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="447698" slsdocid="447624" slsdocty="int-org-section int-org-sectrefdtd"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
          
          <int-org-section id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.1" id-root="other.io" iso="int-org_other" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="INT-ORG-SECTREF" usage="ewyb edio casee sacac ass mena sasia fea eerca">
               <heading>Governance and Security</heading>
               <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb">INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
               <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="edio">OTHER INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
               <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee sacac ass mena sasia fea eerca">REGIONAL ORGANIZATIONS</alt-heading>
               <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="ewyb edio">Governance and Security</alt-heading>
               <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee sacac ass mena sasia fea eerca">Other Regional Organizations</alt-heading>
               <org-list>
                    <!--Accra Initiative https://ecfr.eu/special/african-cooperation/accra-initiative/ for 2021 Jan. 2020: proposed new Horn of Africa Cooperation, a regional bloc (additional to IGAD) that would comprise Eritrea, Ethiopia and Somalia https://www.theafricareport.com/40994/horn-of-africa-cooperation-mixed-responses-to-new-regional-bloc/ -->
                    <org-entry id="IO.OTHER.GOVTSEC.ACCRAINITIATIVE.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="edio ass">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Accra Initiative</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Secretariat: Accra, Ghana</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2017, with a focus on 3 pillars: information and intelligence sharing; training security and intelligence personnel; and conducting jt cross-border military security operations</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">implemented, in 3 phases, border security Operation Koudanlgou during 2018-19</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">an MOU aimed at enhancing security and intelligence co-operation among the mem. states was concluded in 2020</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">an international conf. convened in Nov. 2022, in Accra, called for the operationalization of a Multinational Joint Task Force of the Accra Initiative</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in May 2023 the Secretariat of the Accra Initiative and the ECOWAS Commission agreed to co-ordinate their respective strategies focused on combating terrorism and transnational crime</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Togo; observers: Mali, Niger</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.2" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio ass">
                         <!--rc 24.04.2024 cannot confirm mems-->
                         <!--rc 14.09.2021 cannot confirm pres-->
                         <!--GS 04.09.2017 Fax could not be verified-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>African Association for Public Administration and Manage­ment (AAPAM)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>132 Fuchsia Close, POB 48677, 00100 GPO, Nairobi, Kenya</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(20) 2629650</telephone>
                              <email>aapam@aapam.org</email>
                              <internet>www.aapam.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1971 to promote good practices, excellence and professionalism in public administration through training, seminars, research</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">convenes regular confs to share learning experiences among mems, and an annual Roundtable Conference (2023: July, in Livingstone, Zambia)</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">funded by membership contributions, govt and donor grants</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 500 individual, 50 corp., 15 nat. chapters</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Dr</title>
                                        <forename>John</forename>
                                        <surname>Nakabago</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Uganda</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>George Kojo</forename>
                                        <surname>Scott</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Ghana</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publs 
            <publ-name>Newsletter</publ-name>
             (quarterly), 
            <publ-name>Annual Seminar Report</publ-name>
            , 
            <publ-name>African Journal of Public Ad­min­istration and Management</publ-name>
             (2 a year)
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="OTHER.IO.ASS.136" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb mena ass edio">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>African Parliamentary Union</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>BP V314, Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">20-30-39-70</telephone>
                              <fax>20-30-44-05</fax>
                              <email>upa1@aviso.ci</email>
                              <internet>www.apunion.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1976 (as Union of African Parliaments)</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to promote democracy and to facilitate interaction between African legislators and parliamentary institutions</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 41 parliaments</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Gado Boubacar</forename>
                                        <surname>Idi</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.3" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio ass mena sasia fea">
                         <!--rc 25.02.2020 ownweb removed no other new info-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Afro-Asian Peoples' Solidarity Organization (AAPSO)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>89 Abdel Aziz Al-Saoud St, POB 11559-61 Manial El-Roda, Cairo, Egypt</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 3636081</telephone>
                              <fax>(2) 3637361</fax>
                              <email>aapso@idsc.net.eg</email>
                              <internet>www.aapsorg.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1958</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">acts among and for the peoples of Africa and Asia in support of genuine independence, sovereignty, socioeconomic devt, peace and disarmament</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">holds General Congress normally every 2 years</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">holds observer status of the Non-Aligned Movement</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: nat. cttees and affiliated orgs in 90 countries and territories, assoc. mems in Europe and Latin America</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Helmy</forename>
                                        <surname>al-Hadidi</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <vacancy />
                              </person>
                              <!--rc 24.04.2024 sec gen died in march-->
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.4" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio sacac">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Agency for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean</org-entry-name>
                              <alt-name>Organismo para la Proscripción de las Armas Nucleares en la América Latina y el Caribe—OPANAL</alt-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Milton 61, Col Anzures, Delegación Miguel Hidalgo, 11590 Ciudad de México, Mexico</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(55) 5255-2914</telephone>
                              <fax>(55) 5255-3748</fax>
                              <email>info@opanal.org</email>
                              <internet>www.opanal.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1969 to ensure compliance with the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America (Treaty of Tlatelolco), 1967</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">to ensure the absence of all nuclear weapons in the application zone of the Treaty</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">to contribute to the movement against the proliferation of nuclear weapons</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">to promote general and complete disarmament</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">to prohibit all testing, use, manufacture, acquisition, storage, installation and any form of possession, by any means, of nuclear weapons; the organs of the Agency comprise the General Conference, meeting every 2 years, the Council, meeting every 2 months, and the secretariat</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 33 states that have fully ratified the Treaty</stats>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the Treaty has 2 additional Protocols: the first signed and ratified by France, the Netherlands, the UK and the USA, the second signed and ratified by the People’s Rep. of China, France, the Russian Fed., the UK and the USA</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Flávio</forename>
                                        <surname>Roberto Bonzanini</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Brazil</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="SACAC.IO.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio sacac">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Alianza Bolivariana para los Pueblos de Nuestra América-Tratado de Comercio de los Pueblos—ALBA-TCP</org-entry-name>
                              <alt-name>Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of our America-People’s Trade Treaty</alt-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address> Avda Francisco Solano, Esq. Calle San Gerónimo, Edif. Los Llanos, 8° Sabana Grande, Parroquia El Recreo, Caracas, Venezuela</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(212) 905-9355</telephone>
                              <fax> (212) 761-1364</fax>
                              <email>sejecutiva.alba@gmail.com</email>
                              <internet>albatcp.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2002 (as the Bolivarian Alternative for the Americas) by the then Pres. of Venezuela, Hugo Chávez, to promote an alternative model of political, economic and social co-operation and integration between Caribbean and Latin American countries sharing geographic, historical and cultural bonds</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to reduce disparities in devt between countries in the region and to combat poverty and social exclusion</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the so-called People’s Trade Treaty (Tratado de Comercio de los Pueblos) was signed in April 2006 to formalize a process of complementarity</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in June 2007 the inaugural meeting of ALBA's Council of Ministers agreed to the establishment of jt enterprises, as an alternative to transnational corpns</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the establishment of the Caracas-based Banco del ALBA (BANALBA), to finance devt projects, was endorsed at the 6th summit meeting of heads of state, convened in Jan. 2008</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the use of a Unified System of Regional Compensation (Sistema Único de Compensación Regional—SUCRE) as a means of currency exchange for commercial transactions between mems was agreed in 2009 and first used in 2010</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the agreement establishing SUCRE, signed in Oct. 2009, also envisaged the establishment of a Regional Monetary Council, a Central Clearing House, a regional reserve and emergency fund</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Feb. 2012 the Ecconomic Complementation Council agreed to establish an ALBA-TCP economic space (ECOALBA)</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in May 2013 mems agreed to strengthen co-operation with Petrocaribe through the establishment of a new economic zone to promote regional investment, trade, food security, tourism and devt projects</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a summit meeting between the 2 orgs, convened in Dec., agreed to develop mechanisms to support the economic zone initiative</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in March 2015 ALBA condemned an Executive Order of the USA which had imposed sanctions against 7 Venezuelan officials and had described that country as posing `an extraordinary and unusual threat’ to US national security</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the 14th summit, convened in Caracas, Venezuela, in March 2017, pledged solidarity with Venezuela and called for Latin American unity and solidarity, while reiterating condemnation of the continuing US sanctions regime against that country; the summit also pledged solidarity with Mexico, with regard to the US-Mexico border wall and anti-immigration policies planned by the US Administration of Donald Trump</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the 15th summit meeting, held in March 2018, condemned Peru’s decision not to invite Venezuela to the 8th Summit of the Americas (convened in April)</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">Ecuador announced its withdrawal from ALBA in Aug., further to a deterioration in bilateral relations with Venezuela</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Nov. 2019 Bolivia’s interim govt, established following the resignation of Pres. Evo Morales, announced that country’s withdrawal from ALBA (the decision was reversed, however, by newly-elected Pres. Luis Arce in Nov. 2020)</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in June 2020 the ALBA leaders determined to establish an ALBA Humanitarian Fund, under the auspices of the BANALBA</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">Cuba hosted the 20th, 21st and 22nd summit meetings, held in Dec. 2021, May 2022 and Dec. 2022, respectively</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Jan. 2023 the grouping condemned extremist violence at govt buildings in Brazil and attempts to undermine the authority of that country’s newly elected Pres. Lula da Silva</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            ALBA-TCP participated in July in the 4th Inter-Secretariat Meeting of subregional integration mechanisms, convened at the hq of the 
            <xr pageref="N" ref="LAIA.IO">Latin American Integration Association</xr>
            , in Montevideo, Uruguay, with a focus on productive chains
          </content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Jan. 2024 the grouping issued a statement that condemned a recent Argentine judicial order that had supported a request from the USA to confiscate a Boeing 747 cargo aircraft registered to a Venezuelan co., Emtrasur (a subsidiary of Venezuela’s state-owned airline Conviasa); the aircraft had been detained at Ezeiza International Airport (Buenos Aires, Argentina) in June 2022, in view of `administrative irregularities’: the USA asserted that it had been transferred to Emtrasur from the Iranian airline Mahan Air, in violation of US counter-terrorism legislation relating to transactions involving merchandise originally exported from the USA</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: Antigua and Barbuda, Bolivia, Cuba, Dominica, Grenada, Nicaragua, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Venezuela</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Exec. Sec.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Jorge</forename>
                                        <surname>Arreaza</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Venezuela</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0967.IO.TXT.2" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="sacac">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Alliance for Development in Democracy</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>ADD</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>2021</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to promote co-operation and trade promotion for sustainable development, based on the commitment to democratic institutions, respect for human rights and the rule of law</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">working to achieve concrete actions within the framework of five axes: regional leadership, migration and refuge; environmental sustainability and climate change; security, justice and fight against corruption; and economic growth and sociolabour opportunities</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: Costa Rica, Dominican Rep., Ecuador, Panama</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="OTHER-9.IO.ALLIANCESAHEL.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio ass">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Alliance of Sahel States</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>2023</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            envisaged as a mutual defence pact to counter any military intervention by the 
            <xr pageref="N" ref="ECOWAS.IO">Economic Community of West African States</xr>
             by signatories of the Liptako-Gourma Charter, concluded in Sept. 2023 by the military regimes of Burkina Faso (which had taken power in Sept. 2022, following a first coup in Jan. of that year), Mali (May 2021, following on from an initial military takeover in Aug. 2020), and Niger (July 2023)
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.5" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio sacac fea">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Alliance of Small Island States</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>AOSIS</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>c/o 685 Third Ave, 11th Floor, New York, NY 10017, USA</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(212) 599-6196</telephone>
                              <email>info@aosis.org</email>
                              <internet>www.aosis.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1990</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">serves to focus attention on the specific problems of small islands and low-lying coastal developing states (SIDS)</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">activities cover the Caribbean; Africa, the Indian Ocean, the Mediterranean and the South China Sea—`AIMS’; and the Pacific</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in 2014, reps of the 3 SIDS regions led a strategy governing the UN-designated International Year of Small Island Developing States, culminating in the Third International Conference on SIDS, convened, in Sept., in Apia, Samoa</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">supports immediate and effective implementation of the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">convened the (virtual) Placencia Ambition Forum 2020 in April of that year, with a focus on safeguarding the Paris Agreement and highlighting the global climate change priorities of small islands, and—given the disruptions caused by the COVID-19 crisis—contributing towards sustaining the momentum of the climate agenda</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">convened a Wadadli Action Platform in Antigua, in Aug. 2022, which again highlighted the challenges facing SIDS and formulated priorities for consideration by the 4th International Conference on SIDS (SIDS4)</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">participated, in Jan. 2024, in the Preparatory Cttee for SIDS4, scheduled to be held in Antigua and Barbuda, in May</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">chairmanship rotates (2024: Samoa)</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 39 island nations and observers</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.6" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="edio fea">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>ANZUS</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>c/o Dept of Foreign Affairs and Trade, R. G. Casey Bldg, John McEwen Crescent, Barton, ACT 0221, Australia</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 6261-1111</telephone>
                              <fax>(2) 6271-3111</fax>
                              <internet>www.dfat.gov.au</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL"> the ANZUS Security Treaty, signed in 1951 by Australia, New Zealand and the USA, aimed to co-ordinate partners' efforts for collective defence for the preservation of peace and security in the Pacific area, through the exchange of technical information and strategic intelligence, and a programme of exercises, exchanges and visits</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in 1984 New Zealand refused to allow visits by US naval vessels that were either nuclear-propelled or potentially nuclear-armed, which led to the cancel­lation of jt ANZUS military exercises: in 1986 the USA formally announced the suspension of its security commitment to New Zealand under ANZUS; instead of the annual ANZUS Council meetings, ministerial consultations (AUSMIN) were subsequently held every year between Australia and the USA on policy and political-military issues; ANZUS continued to govern security relations between Australia and the USA, and between Australia and New Zealand</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the Australian Govt invoked the ANZUS Security Treaty for the first (and by 2024 only) time following the international terrorist attacks perpetrated in Sept. 2001 against targets in the USA</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">strategic co-operation between the USA and New Zealand resumed after 2010, and in Sept. 2012 the USA removed a ban on New Zealand naval vessels using its ports</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="OTHER.IO.MENA.40" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="mena edio">
                         <data-protection date-added="23.06.2008" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Arab Inter-Parliamentary Union</org-entry-name>
                              <alt-name>Union Interparlementaire Arabe</alt-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>
                Unit 1
                <sc>b</sc>
                , Bldg 201, Maarad St, Marfaa Area, Beirut, Lebanon
              </verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(1) 985960</telephone>
                              <fax>(1) 985963</fax>
                              <email>info@arabipu.org</email>
                              <internet>www.arabipu.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1974</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to strengthen contacts and promote dialogue between Arab parliamentarians, to co-ordinate activities at international forums, to enhance democratic concepts and values in the Arab countries, to co-ordinate and unify Arab legislation, and to strengthen Arab solidarity</content-note>
                         <stats>mems from 22 countries</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Mohsen</forename>
                                        <surname>Al-Mandalawi</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Iraq</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Fayez</forename>
                                        <surname>Al Shawabkeh</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="GOVTANDPOLS.IO.2017" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="fea edio">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Asia Cooperation Dialogue</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>ACD</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Al Salam, Block 7, St 27, House 14, Kuwait City, Kuwait</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>acd.secretariat@gmail.com</email>
                              <internet>www.acd-dialogue.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2002</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims—without duplicating the work of other orgs—to build an Asian Community, and to strengthen Asia's competitiveness by maximizing the diversity and rich resources in the continent</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">promotes interdependence among Asian countries in all areas of co-operation; aims to expand trade and financial markets within Asia</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">mems: 35 countries</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Dr</title>
                                        <forename>Pornchai</forename>
                                        <surname>Danvivathana</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Thailand</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-OTHERINT.GOVPOL.051" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="edio fea eerca">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Association of North East Asia Regional Governments</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>NEAR</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>
                3
                <sc>f</sc>
                 Pohang Techno Park, No. 601 Gigok-dong, Nam-gu, Pohang, Gyeongsangbuk-do, Republic of Korea
              </verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(54) 223-2318</telephone>
                              <fax>(54) 223-2309</fax>
                              <internet>www.neargov.org/en/</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1996</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">promotes co-operation among local govts in support of subregional economic devt</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 79 local govts in 6 countries (People’s Rep. of China, Japan, Mongolia, Democratic People’s Rep. of Korea, Rep. of Korea, Russian Fed.)</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Byung-jin</forename>
                                        <surname>Lim</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-OTHERINT.GOVPOL.001" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="edio fea">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Association of Pacific Islands Legislatures (APIL)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Carl Rose Bldg, Suite 207, 181 E. Marine Corps Drive, Hagatna, Guam</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(671) 473-3003</telephone>
                              <fax>(671) 473-3004</fax>
                              <email>apil@guam.net</email>
                              <internet>www.apilpacific.com</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1981 to provide a permanent structure of mutual assistance for representatives of the people of the Pacific Islands</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">comprises legislative reps from 12 Pacific Island Govts</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Nelson</forename>
                                        <surname>Stephen</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.7" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                         <!--rc 13.04.2023 cannot confirm mems-->
                         <!--GS 22.02.2017 mem stats could not be confirmed-->
                         <data-protection date-added="02.04.2007" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Association of Secretaries General of Parliaments</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>c/o Committee Office, House of Commons, London, SW1A 0AA, United Kingdom</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>asgp@parliament.uk</email>
                              <internet>www.asgp.co</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1938</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">studies the law, practice and working methods of different parliaments</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">proposes measures for improving those methods and for securing co-operation between the services of different parliaments</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">operates as a consultative body to the Inter-Parliamentary Union, and assists it on subjects within the scope of the Asscn</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Najib</forename>
                                        <surname>el-Khadi</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Morocco</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Jt Secs</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Elektra</forename>
                                        <surname>Garvie-Adams</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>UK</person-note>
                              </person>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Capucine</forename>
                                        <surname>Capon</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>France</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publ. 
            <publ-name>Constitutional and Parliamentary Information</publ-name>
             (2 a year)
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.8" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                         <!--rc 13.04.2023 ownweb not working anymore-->
                         <!--GS 12.07.2017 Fax not confirmed-->
                         <data-protection date-added="02.04.2009" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Atlantic Treaty Association</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>20 rue des Petits Carmes, 1000 Brussels, Belgium</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 502-31-60</telephone>
                              <email>ata.headquarters@outlook.com</email>
                              <internet>atahq.info</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1954</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to promote the goals of the North Atlantic Treaty Org. (NATO), and to enhance the solidarity of the peoples of the North Atlantic</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">holds annual assemblies, seminars, study confs for teachers and young politicians</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">incorporates a youth wing (YATA)</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: nat. asscns in NATO mem. states</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Theodossios</forename>
                                        <surname>Georgiou</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Greece</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="OTHER.IO.GOVT.191" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio fea">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>AUKUS</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>Sept. 2021</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a trilateral security agreement, under the terms of which the USA and the UK were to assist Australia with the acquisition of nuclear-powered submarines and collaboration was to be enhanced with respect to advanced defence technologies</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in March 2023 the parties to the agreement announced that they had agreed on 3 stages for the implementation of the initiative, to be undertaken over the next 3 decades: training and capacity building; the acquisition of complete, conventionally armed, nuclear-powered submarines; and the acquisition of complete, welded power units for submarines to be built in Australia</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: Australia, UK, USA</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="OTHER.IO.CASEE.68" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="edio casee">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Baltic Assembly</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Citadeles St 2-616, Rīga 1010, Latvia</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">6722-5178</telephone>
                              <email>agnija.antanovica@baltasam.org</email>
                              <internet>www.baltasam.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1991</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to promote co-operation among the parliaments of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">comprises 12 parliamentarians from each country, who participate in 6 working cttees: Budget and Audit; Security and Defence; Natural Resources and Environment; Health, Welfare and Family; Education, Science and Culture; and Economics, Energy and Innovation</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">holds annual sessions</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in 1994 the Assembly and the Baltic Council of Ministers formed the Baltic Council, as an institution of co-operation</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">since 1996 has also held jt sessions with the Nordic Council to promote co-operation in Northern Europe</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the presidency rotates between the participating states (2024: Lithuania)</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Agnija</forename>
                                        <surname>Antanoviča</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.9" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Baltic Council of Ministers</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>1993 by the Baltic Assembly</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">comprises 60 parliamentarians from Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">co-ordinates policy in the areas of foreign policy, justice, the environment, education and science</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">holds an annual meeting</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">since 2003 the country holding the rotating presidency of the Baltic Assembly also presides over the Council, ensuring common priorities and organizational efficiency between both bodies (2024: Lithuania)</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-OTHER.DEVANDEC.001" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio eerca">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Barents Euro-Arctic Council</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>POB, 9900, Wiulls Gate 3, Kirkenes, Norway</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>ibs@barents-council.org</email>
                              <internet>www.barents-council.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1993 as a forum for Barents intergovernmental co-operation</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">permanent secretariat established in 2007</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a Barents Financial Mechanism was established in 2022 to help fund projects supporting co-operation and sustainable devt in the region</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">from March 2022 suspended all state-level co-operation with Russia, following that country’s invasion of Ukraine, and closed local offices in Russia</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">chairmanship of the Council rotates on a 2-yearly basis between the mem. states</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Russian Fed., Sweden, European Commission</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Head of Secretariat</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Jenny</forename>
                                        <surname>Mikkelsen Spring</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="CASPIAN.GOVT.IO.2" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio eerca mena">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Caspian Summit</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">inaugural meeting of heads of state of the 5 littoral Caspian Sea states was held in Aşgabat, Turkmenistan, in April 2002, in order to further discussions on the status and demarcation of the sea</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a special working group, at the level of deputy mins responsible for foreign affairs, had been established in 1996 to negotiate a legal framework on the shared use of the Caspian Sea</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">subsequent summits were convened in Tehran, Iran, in Oct. 2007, Baku, Azerbaijan, in Nov. 2010, and Astrakhan, Russian Fed., in Sept. 2014</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Aug. 2018, at the 5th summit meeting, convened in Aktau, Kazakhstan, heads of state signed the Convention on the Legal Status of the Caspian Sea, as well as protocols to previous intergovernmental agreements</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            the accords were to govern the shared resources and security of the sea, 
            <i>inter alia,</i>
             through the delineation of territorial and exclusive fishing rights, the prohibition of any foreign military presence, and strengthened co-operation in maritime shipping, transport interconnection and the prevention of incidents
          </content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a business forum and a Caspian Youth Summit took place at the sidelines of the summit for the first time in 2010</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the First Caspian Economic Forum was convened in Aug. 2019, in Awaza, Turkmenistan</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: Azerbaijan, Iran, Kazakhstan, Russian Fed., Turkmenistan</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.10" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="edio">
                         <!--GS 12.06.2017 Mem stats not confirmed-->
                         <!--GS 22.02.2017 Members could not be confirmed-->
                         <!--GS 29.03.2016 Could not find address-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Celtic League</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <email>gensec@celticleague.net</email>
                              <internet>www.celticleague.net</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1961 to foster co-operation between the 6 Celtic nations—Ireland (Éire), Scotland (Alba), Isle of Man (Mannin), Wales (Cymru), Cornwall (Kernow) and Brittany (Breizh), especially those actively working for political autonomy by non-violent means</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">campaigns politically on issues affecting the Celtic countries</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">monitors military activity in the Celtic countries</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">co-operates with national cultural orgs to promote the languages and culture of the Celts</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: approx. 1,400 individuals in the European traditionally Celtic communities, as well as a general international branch, and local branches based in England, USA, Nova Scotia (Canada) and Patagonia (Argentina)</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Gen. Sec.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Rhisiart</forename>
                                        <surname>Tal-e-bot</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>UK</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publ. 
            <publ-name>Carn</publ-name>
             (quarterly)
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.11" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee eerca">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Central European Initiative (CEI)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>CEI Executive Secretariat, Via Genova 9, 34121 Trieste, Italy</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(040) 7786777</telephone>
                              <fax>(040) 360640</fax>
                              <email>cei@cei.int</email>
                              <internet>www.cei.int</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1989 as `Quadragonal’ co-operation between Austria, Italy, Hungary and Yugoslavia, became `Pentagonal' in 1990 with the admission of Czechoslovakia, and `Hexagonal’ with the admission of Poland in 1991, present name adopted in 1992, when Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Slovenia were admitted</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the Czech Rep. and Slovakia became separate mems in Jan. 1993, and the former Yugoslav rep. of Macedonia (now North Macedonia) also joined in that year</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">Albania, Belarus, Bulgaria, Romania and Ukraine joined in 1995 and Moldova in 1996</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the Federal Rep. of Yugoslavia (now the separate sovereign states of Montenegro and Serbia) was admitted in 2000</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">encourages regional political and economic co-operation with a focus on: climate, environment and sustainable energy; enterprise devt (incl. tourism); human resource devt; information society and media; intercultural co-operation (incl. minorities); multimodal transport; science and technology; sustainable agriculture; interregional and cross-border co-operation</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in May 2020 the CEI and WHO Regional Office for Europe established a jt task force, comprising senior health officials from CEI mem. states, to co-ordinate the regional response to the COVID-19 pandemic</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a CEI Cooperation Fund, financed by the Italian Govt and managed by the EBRD, was est. in 1992</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">economic forum held annually since 1998</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">rotating presidency (2024: Albania); maintains a troika mechanism, comprising the current, most recent and next presidencies</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 17 states (Belarus suspended in March 2022)</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Roberto</forename>
                                        <surname>Antonione</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publ. 
            <publ-name>Newsletter</publ-name>
             (monthly)
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <!--~ at mid-2023 next CEI presidency: Albania-->
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.12" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                         <!--rc 13.04.2023 cannot confirm mems-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Centrist Democrat International (IDC-CDI)</org-entry-name>
                              <alt-name>Internacional Demócrata de Centro</alt-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>10 rue du Commerce, 1000 Brussels, Belgium</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 466-39-30-42</telephone>
                              <email>secretariat@idc-cdi.com</email>
                              <internet>idc-cdi.com</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1961 as Christian Democrat and Peoples' Parties International, present name adopted in 1999</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">serves as an asscn of political groups adhering to Christian humanist and democratic theology</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 109 political parties in 83 countries</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Andrés</forename>
                                        <surname>Pastrana</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Colombia</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Gen. Sec.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Antonio</forename>
                                        <surname>López Istúriz</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Spain</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="GOVANDPOLS.IO.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Club of Madrid</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Palacio del Marqués de Cañete, Calle Mayor 69, Planta 1, 28013 Madrid, Spain</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(91) 1548230</telephone>
                              <fax>(91) 1548240</fax>
                              <email>clubmadrid@clubmadrid.org</email>
                              <internet>www.clubmadrid.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2001, following Conference on Democratic Transition and Consolidation</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">forum of democratically elected former Presidents and Prime Ministers</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to strengthen democratic values and leadership</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 124 from 73 countries</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Danilo</forename>
                                        <surname>Türk</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Slovenia</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>María Elena</forename>
                                        <surname>Agüero</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="GOVTANDPOLS.IO.55" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="edio ass">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Coalition for the Sahel</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <internet>www.coalition-sahel.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>
            Jan. 2020, in Pau, France, by the heads of state of the 
            <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-OTHER5.001">G5 Sahel</xr>
             countries and of France
          </found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to provide a framework for co-operation with a wider grouping of international partners to counter terrorism in the sub-region, to strengthen the capacities of G5 states to impose order within all their territories, and to harness humanitarian and devt assistance</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>High Rep.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Hamadi</forename>
                                        <surname>Meimou</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Mauritania</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.100" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio eerca">
                         <!--GS 19.07.2017 Reply asks to delete the note- the CSTO became an observer at the UN General Assembly in 2004, but web confirms this fact; hence retained it -->
                         <data-protection date-added="20.06.2017" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>101100 Moscow, per. Sverchkov 3/2, Russian Federation</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(495) 621-37-86</telephone>
                              <email>odkb@gov.ru</email>
                              <internet>en.odkb-csto.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2003 by signatories to the Treaty on Collective Security (signed in Tashkent, Uzbekistan, May 1992)</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to co-ordinate and strengthen military and political co-operation and to promote regional and national security</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">became an observer at the UN General Assembly in 2004</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in April 2006 signed a protocol with UNODC to develop jt projects to combat drug trafficking, terrorism and transborder crime</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the Oct. 2007 leaders' summit endorsed documents enabling the establishment of CSTO jt peacekeeping forces and the creation of a co-ordination council for the heads of mem. states' emergency response agencies</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Feb. 2009 agreed to establish a rapid reaction force and conducted a jt military exercise in Aug.-Oct. (without the participation of Uzbekistan, which formally withdrew from the org. in 2012)</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in March 2010 the CSTO and UN Secretaries-General signed a declaration on co-operation, giving the CSTO full recognition as a regional security body</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Sept. 2012 the CSTO and the UN Department of Peacekeeping Operations signed a Memorandum of Co-operation providing for the future expansion of collaboration on peacekeeping activities</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the devt of a CSTO peacekeeping contingent, comprising experts, operational personnel and special units, was initiated in 2017</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Jan. 2022 authorized the dispatch of a collective peacekeeping mission to Kazakhstan, of some 2,030 troops, to counter civil unrest, secure key infrastructure facilities and restore order</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in April a draft action plan on enhancing the CSTO’s crisis response capabilities was finalized</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">CSTO jt military exercises are regularly organized</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russian Fed., Tajikistan</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Imangali Nurgaliyevich</forename>
                                        <surname>Tasmagambetov</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Kazakhstan</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="GOVTPOL.IO.1638" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio sacac">
                         <data-protection date-added="18.04.2017" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Community of Latin American and Caribbean States</org-entry-name>
                              <alt-name>Comunidad de Estados Latinoamericanos y Caribeños—CELAC</alt-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <email>info@celacinternational.org</email>
                              <internet>celacinternational.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2010</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">heads of state of the fmr Rio Group (f. 1987) and Latin American and Caribbean Summit on Integration and Development agreed to merge to establish CELAC as a pan-regional body to strengthen co-operation on political, cultural, social and economic issues</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">inaugural summit held in Dec. 2011</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the 2nd summit, held in Jan. 2013, in Santiago, Chile, was preceded by an inaugural CELAC-EU summit, at which a revised Action Plan for bilateral relations was adopted</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the 3rd CELAC summit, convened in Jan. 2014, in Havana, Cuba, issued the Proclamation of Latin America and the Caribbean as a Zone of Peace</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a 2nd CELAC-EU summit was held in June 2015</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the inaugural CELAC-EU inter-summit meeting was convened in Oct. 2016, at which CELAC and EU mins responsible for foreign affairs determined to transform the Hamburg, Germany-based EU-Latin America and Caribbean Foundation (EU-LAC Foundation—est. in 2010)—into an int. org.; the EU-LAC Foundation Constitutive Agreement entered into force in May 2019</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a China-CELAC Forum was convened in Jan. 2018</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the creation of a wider Latin American and Caribbean sustainable economic devt zone has been addressed by CELAC and other regional orgs</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in July 2021 CELAC condemned the assassination of Haitian President Jovenel Moïse, and emphasized support for a return in that country to constitutional order and the rule of law</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the 6th summit meeting, held in mid-Sept. 2021, in Mexico City, Mexico, initiated a new CELAC fund for natural disaster response</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in early Jan. 2023 the new Brazilian govt of Pres. Lula da Silva announced its return to full membership of CELAC (this having been suspended in Jan. 2020)</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">later in that month the 7th summit meeting was convened in Buenos Aires, Argentina, at which heads of state and govt expressed their commitment to regional integration and upholding democracy and the rule of law; they also called for an end to the US sanctions against Cuba, support for Venezuelan political dialogue and greater provision of credit by multilateral financial institutions to assist mem. states to counter the economic impact of COVID-19, climate change and the ongoing war in Ukraine; the meeting was addressed by Pres. Xi of China, who confirmed his country’s recognition of CELAC as a key partner in furthering greater Chinese co-operation with the region</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the 3rd CELAC-EU summit of heads of state or of govt, organized in July 2023, in Brussels, Belgium, adopted an EU-CELAC Roadmap for the period 2023-25, providing for bi-regional ministerial and other high-level meetings, other gatherings, fora and events, and the First Bi-regional Connectivity Policy Dialogue</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the 8th summit meeting was held at the beginning of March 2024, in Kingstown, St Vincent and the Grenadines</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">an emergency summit was to be convened on 12 April, to address a diplomatic crisis that had arisen between Ecuador and Mexico (following an Ecuadorian raid against the Mexican Embassy in Quito, Ecuador, to arrest former Ecuadorisn Vice-Pres. Jorge Glas)</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">rotating presidency (2024: Honduras)</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 31 Latin American and Caribbean states</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="GOVTPOL.IO.166" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="edio ewyb eerca">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO), Preparatory Commission</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Vienna International Centre, POB 1200, 1040 Vienna, Austria</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(1) 26030-0</telephone>
                              <internet>ctbto.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1996 upon the adoption by the UN General Assembly of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT)</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">promotes the global norm of a moratorium on nuclear testing, supports verification of the Treaty and prepares for its entry into force, including the establishment of verification structures to ensure compliance with its provisions</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the org. operates some 133 International Monitoring System (IMS) facilities which relay information to an International Data Centre, based at the Vienna headquarters; IMS data also supports climate-related activities including tsunami warnings</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">at April the CTBT had 178 states parties; to enter into force it required universal ratification by the 44 `Annex II’ states with known nuclear capacities—those remaining at that time were the People’s Rep. of China, the Democratic People’s Rep. of Korea, Egypt, India, Iran, Israel, Pakistan, the Russian Fed. and the USA</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Oct. 2023 Russia had revoked a previous ratification—to ensure parity with the USA, which had signed but not as yet ratified the treaty</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Exec. Sec. of the Provisional Technical Secretariat</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Robert</forename>
                                        <surname>Floyd</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Australia</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.13" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio sacac ass fea">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Comunidade dos Países de Língua Portuguesa</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>CPLP</abbr>
                              <alt-name>Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries</alt-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>rua de S. Mamede (ao Caldas) 21, 1100-533 Lisbon, Portugal</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(21) 392-8560</telephone>
                              <fax>(21) 392-8588</fax>
                              <email>comunicacao@cplp.org</email>
                              <internet>www.cplp.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1996</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to produce close political, economic, diplomatic and cultural links between Portu­guese-speaking countries and to strengthen the influence of the Lusophone Commonwealth within the international community</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">Lisbon-based CPLP Parliamentary Assembly inaugurated in Nov. 2007</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Nov. 2010 adopted, jtly with ECOWAS, the CPLP-ECOWAS roadmap on reform of the defence and security sector in Guinea-Bissau</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in April 2017 the CPLP Exec. Sec. held consultations with national and international stakeholders in Guinea-Bissau to address an ongoing paralysis of the political process in that country</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a jt military exercise, Exercício FELINO, is conducted periodically by mem. states</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">summit meeting normally held every 2 years (14th was convened in São Tomé and Príncipe, in Aug. 2023, on the theme `Youth and Sustainability’); a CPLP strategic plan was being implemented during 2016-26</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in July 2019, with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN, opened a new Training Centre for Sustainable Family Farming, based in São Tomé and Príncipe</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: Angola, Brazil, Cabo Verde, Equatorial Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, Portugal, São Tomé and Príncipe (holding the rotating presidency during 2023-25), Timor-Leste; 19 assoc. observers</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Exec. Sec.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Zacarias</forename>
                                        <surname>da Costa</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Timor-Leste</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="GOVTANDPOLS.IO.30" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio eerca sasia fea mena">
                         <data-protection date-added="15.12.2016" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>010000 Astana, 55/20 Mangilik Yel. Ave, Kazakhstan</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(7172) 57-65-10</telephone>
                              <email>s-cica@s-cica.org</email>
                              <internet>www.s-cica.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1999</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to provide a structure to enhance co-operation, and to promote peace, security and stability throughout the region</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">inaugural meeting of heads of state held in June 2002, adopted the AlmatI Act</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a secretariat was established in June 2006</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">activities focused on a catalogue of confidence-building measures grouped as: economic dimension; environmental dimension; human dimension; fight against new challenges and threats (such as drug trafficking, terrorism, transborder crime, human trafficking, money laundering, illicit trade in small arms and light weapons); and military-political dimension</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            has supported the 
            <xr pageref="N" ref="GOVSEC.IO.HEARTOFASIA.1">Heart of Asia-Istanbul Process</xr>
                         </content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">at the 6th summit meeting, held in Oct. 2022, in Astana, mems resolved to transform the legal status of the grouping into an international org.; the role of Exec. Dir was renamed Sec.-Gen. and a Deputy Sec.-Gen. was to be appointed</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 28 states; 10 observer states; 5 observer orgs (UN, OSCE, League of Arab States, IOM, and Parliamentary Assembly of Turkic States)</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Kairat</forename>
                                        <surname>Sarybay</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Kazakhstan</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="GOVTANDPOLS.IO.1115" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio fea sasia">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Council for Security Co-operation in the Asia-Pacific</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Institute of Strategic and International Studies (ISIS Malaysia), 1 Persiaran Sultan Salahuddin, POB 12424, 50778 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(3) 26939366</telephone>
                              <fax>(3) 26939375</fax>
                              <email>cscap@isis.org.my</email>
                              <internet>www.cscap.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1993</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to contribute to regional confidence-building efforts and to enhance regional security through dialogue, consultation and co-operation between academics, officials and other stakeholders</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 21 full and 1 assoc.</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Co-Chair. of Steering Cttee</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Yoshiji</forename>
                                        <surname>Nogami</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Japan</person-note>
                              </person>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Tan Sri Rastam</forename>
                                        <surname>Mohd Isa</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Malaysia</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publs 
            <publ-name>CSCAP Regional Security Outlook (CRSO)</publ-name>
             (annually), 
            <publ-name>CSCAP General Conference Reports</publ-name>
             (2 a year)
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <!--~ MENA - small Council of Europe entry -->
                    <!--~ Cyprus Dialogue Forum, new entry for MENA 2020 www.cydialogue.org-->
                    <org-entry id="IO-LAW.ECLA.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio ass">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>East African Legislative Assembly</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Afrika Mashariki Rd/EAC Close, Arusha, Tanzania</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(27) 2162126</telephone>
                              <email>eala@eachq.org</email>
                              <internet>www.eala.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2001</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            established under the
            <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XB.IO.TXT.73"> East African Community’s</xr>
             founding Treaty as the legislative organ of the Community
          </content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the first sitting of the 5th tenure (2022-27) of the Assembly was held in Jan. 2023</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">72 mems (63 elected and 9 ex officio)</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Speaker</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Rt Hon.</title>
                                        <forename>Joseph</forename>
                                        <surname>Ntakirutimana</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Burundi</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="EAS.IO.GOVANDPOLS.2" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio fea eerca">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>East Asia Summit</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>EAS</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <email>eas.admin@asean.org</email>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2005 as a regional forum for strategic dialogue and co-operation</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">covers the following areas of co-operation: economy and trade; education; environment and energy; finance; food security; global health issues and pandemic diseases; natural disaster management; and ASEAN connectivity</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">annual meetings of heads of state and of govt are held, usually after the ASEAN summit meeting; other ministerial or senior officials’ meetings are convened during the year</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">an EAS Declaration on the Principles for Mutually Beneficial Relations was issued in Nov. 2011 (when the Russian Fed. and USA participated fully for the first time)</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in 2015 the 10th EAS, held in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, in Nov., resolved to strengthen the grouping as an institution and to enhance co-operation</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">an EAS Plan of Action to cover the period 2024-28 was adopted in July 2023 by EAS ministers responsible for foreign affairs; the 18th Summit was organized by Indonesia in Sept. 2023, in Jakarta, with guest representation from the Pacific Islands Forum and Indian Ocean Rim Association</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: ASEAN states, Australia, People’s Rep. of China, India, Japan, New Zealand, Rep. of Korea, Russian Fed., USA</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.14" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio sasia fea">
                         <data-protection date-added="06.01.2022" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Eastern Regional Organization for Public Administration (EROPA)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>National College of Public Administration, University of the Philippines, Diliman, Quezon City 1101, Philippines</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="Y">(2) 9297789</telephone>
                              <email>secretariat@eropa.co</email>
                              <internet>www.eropa.co</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1960</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">promotes regional co-operation in improving knowledge, systems and practices of governmental ad­min­istration, to help to accelerate economic and social devt</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">organizes confs, seminars, special studies, surveys and training programmes</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">there are 5 regional centres: Training Centre (New Delhi, India), Local Government Centre (Tokyo, Japan), Development Man­age­ment Centre (Seoul, Rep. of Korea), Human Resources Research Center (Beijing, People’s Rep. of China), Policy Studies Center (Jakarta, Indonesia)</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">holds annual conf. (2023: Ha Noi, Viet Nam, in Oct., on the theme `The Role of Public Governance in Socio-Economic Recovery and Development Towards the SDGs’)</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: People’s Rep. of China, India, Indonesia, Iran, Japan, Malaysia, Rep. of Korea, Nepal, Philippines, Thailand, Viet Nam</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Alex B.</forename>
                                        <surname>Brillantes</surname>
                                        <gen-name>Jr</gen-name>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Philippines</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publs 
            <publ-name>EROPA Bulletin</publ-name>
             (quarterly), 
            <publ-name>Asian Review of Public Administration</publ-name>
             (2 a year)
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="GOVTPOL.IO.001" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>The Elders</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>3 Tilney St, London, W1K 1BJ, United Kingdom</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(20) 7013-4646</telephone>
                              <email>media@theElders.org</email>
                              <internet>www.theelders.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>July 2007, by former Pres. of South Africa, Nelson Mandela</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a group of independent world leaders offering collective influence and experience</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to support the peaceful resolution of conflict, to seek new approaches to unresolved global issues and to share wisdom in all efforts to uphold human rights, to counter climate change and to alleviate human suffering</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">an Elders' Strategy being implemented during 2023-27 focused on resolving conflicts, and on addressing 3 existential threats to humanity that require a collective response: the climate crisis, nuclear weapons, and pandemics</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">comprises: Mary Robinson (Ireland) (Chair.), Ban Ki-Moon (Rep. of Korea), Graça Machel (Mozambique), Gro Harlem Brundtland (Norway), Helen Clark (New Zealand), Elbegdorj Tsakhia (Mongolia), Zeid Raad al-Hussein (Jordan), Hina Jilani (Pakistan), Ellen Johnson Sirleaf (Liberia), Ricardo Lagos (Chile), Juan Manuel Santos (Colombia), Ernesto Zedillo (Mexico)</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the following maintain the positions of Elder Emeritus: Lakhdar Brahimi (Algeria), Fernando H. Cardoso (Brazil), Jimmy Carter (USA)</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <!--Martti Ahtisaari (Finland), - Elder Emeritus - d. 16.x.2023; Ela Bhatt (India) d. 2022-->
                    <!-- European Institute of Peace f. 2015-->
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.15" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                         <data-protection date-added="20.08.2007" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>European Movement International</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>2 pl. du Luxembourg, 1050 Brussels, Belgium</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 508-30-88</telephone>
                              <fax>(2) 508-30-89</fax>
                              <email>petros.fassoulas@europeanmovement.eu</email>
                              <internet>europeanmovement.eu</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1947 to promote the concepts of European unity</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">brings together reps of civil society, political parties, trade unions, local govt and academia to consider issues relating to the European Union</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">advocates for policies to support European integration</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">promotes an annual Women of Europe Awards</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: nat. councils and cttees in 34 European countries, and 38 int. social and economic orgs, 3 supporting mems</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>
                  
                  Guy
                </forename>
                                        <surname>Verhofstadt</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Petros</forename>
                                        <surname>Fassoulas</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Greece</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="OTHER.IO.EPC.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee eerca mena">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>European Political Community </org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>EPC</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>2022 (the format having first been proposed in May by Pres. Emmanuel Macron of France)</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">conceived of as a broad platform to promote inter-European exchange of views, political dialogue and co-operation with respect to Europe-wide strategic challenges, with a view to strengthening continental stability, security, peace and prosperity</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the format is informal,:as such the participants do not issue collective formal declarations</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">meetings between European leaders may take place in smaller (e.g. bilateral, trilateral) groupings on the sidelines of the EPC’s summits</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">inaugural summit held in Oct. 2022, in Prague, Czech Rep., with participation by the heads of state or govt of the 27 EU mem. states (the European Council of the EU agreed in June 2022 to support the EPC format), the 4 European Free Trade Association countries (i.e. Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland), the UK, 6 non-EU Western Balkans countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Montenegro, North Macedonia and Serbia), 5 Eastern European countries (Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine), and Türkiye</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">subsequent summits were to be convened biannually, hosted alternately by EU and non-EU mems; the 2nd summit was held in June 2023, in Bulboaca, Moldova; 3rd: in Oct., in Granada, Spain</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="OTHER.IO.FVEY.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio fea">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Five Eyes</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>FVEY</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">intelligence alliance developed from the UK-US Communication Agreement that was signed in 1946 by the UK and USA and subsequently joined by Australia, Canada and New Zealand</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in 2020 the grouping considered whether to broaden its scope into an economic partnership for pooling strategic reserves such as medical supplies and critical minerals (i.e. rare earth elements that are used as components in consumer and defence products)—with a view to countering strategic dependencies on the People’s Republic of China</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">participation by Japan is under consideration</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">2023 Five Country Ministerial (FCM) meeting: Wellington, New Zealand, in June, focused on the following themes: countering foreign interference; cybersecurity; engagement with tech industry; countering violent extremism and terrorism; tackling child exploitation and abuse online; migration; national resilience; and fentanyl and the opioid crisis</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-OTHER5.001" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio ass">
                         <!--GS 01.09.2017 Have contact form instead of an email-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>G5 Sahel</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>ILOT ZRA 742 BIS, rue Monotel, Tevragh Zeina, Nouakchott, Mauritania</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(222) 45-25-7730</telephone>
                              <email>contact@g5sahel.org</email>
                              <internet>www.g5sahel.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2014</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to promote security, devt, good governance and resilience in the Sahel region</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a UN-supported G5 unit is tasked with preventing extremist radicalization</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">determined in Feb. 2017 to establish a counter-terrorism force—Force conjointe du G5 Sahel (FC-G5S)—tasked with combating violent extremist groups operating in the G5 common space; the FC-G5S was to comprise up to 5,000 military and police personnel</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in April the AU Peace and Security Council endorsed the strategic concept of operations of the FC-G5S and authorized its deployment, which was then endorsed by the UN Security Council in June</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">it was announced in Aug. that the FC-G5S had become operational; a co-ordinated operation along Mali's borders with Burkina Faso and Niger was undertaken in early Nov.; in Dec. the UN Security Council determined to extend further technical support to the force</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a FC-G5S Trust Fund has been established</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Jan. 2020, at a summit attended in Pau, France, by the G5 Sahel heads of state, Pres. Emmanuel Macron of France and the UN Sec.-Gen., a Niamey, Niger-based jt command mechanism was established between the FC-G5S and French Opération Barkhane (then deployed in the region to support action against terrorist insurgencies); the strategic concept of operations of the FC-G5S was revised at that time; the meeting endorsed the establishment of a new Coalition for the Sahel, as a collaborative framework between the G5 Sahel and international partners to promote peace, stability and devt assistance throughout the sub-region; in March the Force initiated Operation Sama in the Sahel region</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the 6th ordinary G5 Sahel summit, held in Feb., in Nouakchott, agreed to create a G5 Sahel Exec. Secretariat</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the 7th summit was hosted by Chad, in N'Djamena, in Feb. 2021</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Feb. 2022 Pres. Macron announced that Opération Barkhane was to be withdrawn from Mali (this was undertaken by Aug.); meanwhile, mercenaries of the Wagner Group, a Russian private paramilitary and security contractor, were reported to be increasingly active in Mali</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">Mali withdrew from the G5 Sahel in June, reportedly after the grouping denied its transitional authorities from assuming its forthcoming presidency</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Jan. 2023 Burkina Faso’s military junta demanded that France withdraw its forces from Burkinabè territory</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a 6th extraordinary G5 Sahel summit meeting was convened in N’Djamena in Feb. 2023 at a time of escalating violent extremism</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">following the overthrow of the elected Nigerien Government in July France announced that it would withdraw its forces from Niger by the end of the year</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            in Sept. the military regimes of Mali, Niger and Burkina Faso signed a new security pact, the 
            <xr pageref="N" ref="OTHER-9.IO.ALLIANCESAHEL.1">Alliance of Sahel States</xr>
                         </content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in early Dec. Burkina Faso and Niger announced they were to withdraw from the org.; Chad and Mauritania reportedly were considering its dissolution</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: Chad, Mauritania</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Eric Yemdaogo</forename>
                                        <surname>Tiaré</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>g7+</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>c/o Ministry of Finance, Dili, Timor-Leste</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(670) 3310-126</telephone>
                              <email>helder.costa@g7plus.org</email>
                              <internet>www.g7plus.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2010</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">asscn of countries either presently affected by conflict or in a post-conflict stage of devt, promotes co-operation between mems and highlights the specific needs of those countries</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">granted observer status at the UN General Assembly in Dec. 2019, and associated observer at the CPLP in Aug. 2021</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 20 countries</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Helder</forename>
                                        <surname>da Costa</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="GOVTSEC.IO.GCTF.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Global Counterterrorism Forum</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>GCTF</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <email>outreach@theGCTF.org</email>
                              <internet>www.thegctf.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2011</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">operates as a multilateral platform with a focus on strengthening the international architecture for addressing terrorism</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">promotes a strategic, long-term approach to countering terrorism and related violent extremist ideologies</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">develops good practices and tools for policymakers on challenges such as returning foreign terrorist fighters, the role of families in preventing violent extremism, and preventing kidnapping for ransom by terrorists, and maintains the GCTF Foreign Terrorist Fighters Knowledge Hub</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a GCTF Lifecycle Initiative Toolkit has been developed to enable policymakers to address the pathways from radicalization and violence</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            issued the 
            <i>Hague-Marrakech Memorandum on Good Practices for a More Effective Response to the Foreign Terrorist Fighters (FTF) Phenomenon</i>
             in 2016
          </content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">supports the implementation of the UN’s Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy, as well as the UN Sec.-Gen.’s Plan of Action to Prevent Violent Extremism (publ. in 2016)</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 29 states and the European Union</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-OTHERORGS.GOVANDPOL.001" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee mena fea eerca">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Group of Seven (G7)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">an informal meeting of major advanced economies, originally comprising France, Germany, Italy, Japan, UK and the USA, first convened in Nov. 1975, at Rambouillet, France, at the level of heads of state and of govt; Canada became a permanent participant in 1976</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">from 1991 the Russian Fed. was invited to participate in summit meetings outside the formal framework of co-operation and in 1997 Russia became a participant in nearly all meetings, excepting those related to finance and the global economy; from 1998 the name of the co-operation framework was changed to Group of Eight—G8, and during 2003-13 Russia participated fully in the grouping; from March 2014, however, owing to Russia’s interference in Ukraine’s domestic affairs and its recognition of Crimea (hitherto a Ukrainian autonomous territory) as a sovereign state, and subsequent annexation of Crimea, Russia’s participation was suspended, and the group reverted to its former membership and name</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">an annual meeting is convened, with the Presidents of the European Commission and the European Council, the chairmanship and venue of which are rotated; summit meetings address and seek consensus on social and economic issues confronting the international community</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">regular discussions at the level of ministers of finance and central bank governors take place to consider devts in the global economy and economic policy; sectoral ministerial meetings are also convened to address areas such as energy, the environment and foreign affairs</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">an emergency teleconference of G7 finance ministers and central bank governors was held in early March 2020 to discuss policy tools that might protect the global economy from the impacts of the COVID-19 global public health emergency</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            at a virtual summit meeting held in mid-April support was expressed by all leaders other than Pres. Trump for the ongoing efforts of 
            <xr pageref="N" ref="IO-UN.2442">the World Health Organization (WHO)</xr>
             and partner agencies to combat the COVID-19 pandemic (Trump, meanwhile, had recently suspended US funding to WHO)
          </content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">at the end of May the USA, scheduled to be hosting the 46th summit meeting in the following month, postponed the gathering until later in the year; in the event, no summit was convened</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">at a virtual mini-summit gathering hosted by the UK in Feb. 2021 mem. states pledged US&#8201;$7,500m. in additional funding to redress `vaccine inequality’ (the theme of the meeting) by accelerating the distribution of surplus COVID-19 vaccines to developing countries</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in early June, meeting in London, UK, G7 finance ministers jtly agreed support for a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15%</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the 2021 summit meeting—hosted by the UK, in Carbis Bay, Cornwall, in mid-June—pledged to secure a further 1,000m. COVID-19 vaccine doses over the next year for low- and middle-income countries; the so-called Carbis Bay Declaration also incl. commitments to continue to invest in research and innovation, with a view to ensuring the efficacy of vaccines against emerging variants of COVID-19; to engage constructively at the WTO on the issue of introducing temporary intellectual property waivers for COVID-19 vaccine patents; to support the strengthening of the global health system, incl. global surveillance for potentially dangerous diseases; to continue to support economies and protect employment, while investing in training, skills, innovation, and the creation of decent jobs and quality infrastructure; to support a new $650,000m. general allocation of IMF special drawing rights; to continue to pursue the goal of phasing out inefficient fossil fuel subsidies by 2025; to ensure that by 2026 40m. more girls are receiving education; and to co-operate with China, in particular on addressing climate change; the communiqué also called on China to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, especially in relation to Xinjiang and Hong Kong</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a virtual meeting of the G7 leaders, with participation by the Secs-Gen. of the UN and of NATO, was held in late Aug. to address the recent takeover of Afghanistan by the militant Taliban org.; at the end of Aug. a virtual meeting on Afghanistan was convened by the ministers responsible for foreign affairs of the G7 states, EU, Turkey (now known as Türkiye) and Qatar (which had assisted with the civilian evacuation process), again with participation by the NATO Sec.-Gen.; in Dec. G7 foreign ministers, convened in Liverpool, UK, condemned the Russian military build-up on its border with Ukraine and urged a de-escalation of tensions; the G7 strongly reaffirmed its commitment to Ukraine’s territorial integrity</content-note>
                         <stats>in mid-Feb. 2022 the G7 stated its continuing grave concern over the `threatening military build-up’ of Russian forces around Ukraine, and called on Russia to resolve tensions through diplomatic channels and substantively to withdraw its military presence</stats>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">on 24 Feb., in response to Russia’s initiation on that day of a full-scale military invasion of Ukraine, the G7 leaders issued a statement that condemned the assault on Ukraine, terming it a serious threat to the UN Charter and rules-based international order</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">meeting in Brussels, in March, the G7 leaders determined to increase collective contributions to the World Food Programme and to other int. agencies concerned with alleviating food insecurity</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a virtual meeting of G7 leaders held in early May, with participation by Pres. Zelensky of Ukraine, pledged to continue to provide Ukraine with military and defence support, to help strengthen the country’s energy and economic security, and to expand co-operation, including on information security; firm commitments were made at that time to (i) phase out dependency on Russian energy, including by phasing out or banning imports of Russian oil, through finding alternative suppliers and expediting the transition to clean energy sources; (ii) prohibit or prevent the provision of key services on which Russia depends; and (iii) continue to take action against Russian banks connected to the global economy and of systemically critical importance to the Russian financial system</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">at the annual summit, convened in late June, in Schloss Elmau, Germany, the leaders issued a communiqué in which they pledged to stand firmly by Ukraine, incl. through the provision of budgetary and humanitarian assistance, military aid, and support for Ukraine’s long-term reconstruction; the leaders also agreed to establish a Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment (PGII), which aimed to mobilize (by 2027) $600,000m. for projects in developing economies, and a G7 Climate Club, to promote climate actions aligned with the goals of the 2015 Paris Agreement, and committed to achieving a fully decarbonized electricity supply by 2035; some $4,500m. in additional funding was committed to a new G7 Global Alliance for Food Security that had been launched in May by a meeting of G7 ministers responsible for devt; the leaders determined generally to cease direct international public financing of fossil fuels by the end of 2022</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Aug. G7 foreign ministers and the High Representative of the EU called upon Russian forces immediately to give back to Ukraine full control of all of its nuclear facilities, to ensure their safety</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">meeting in Sept. the G7 finance ministers stated their collective political intention to impose a price cap on Russia’s oil exports, with a view to reducing that country’s revenues</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the 49th G7 leaders’ summit was hosted by Japan in Hiroshima, in mid-May 2023, with additional invited participation by the leaders of Australia, Brazil, Comoros, Cook Islands, India, Indonesia, Republic of Korea, Viet Nam, and Ukraine; the ensuing Hiroshima Leaders’ Communiqué, emphasizing respect for the UN Charter and international partnership, reaffirmed unwavering support to Ukraine `for as long as it takes’ to counter Russia’s war of aggression, and committed (as detailed in a G7 Leaders’ Statement on Ukraine) to intensifying diplomatic, financial, humanitarian and military support for Ukraine, to increasing costs for Russia and supporters of its war, and to continuing to work towards mitigating the negative global impacts of the conflict (particularly for the most vulnerable people worldwide); the leaders issued a G7 Clean Energy Economy Action Plan, endorsed a series of Circular Economy and Resource Efficiency Principles, and—in a G7 Leaders’ Statement on Economic Resilience and Economic Security—determined to focus on diversifying and deepening partnerships, and on `de-risking’ economic activities (while stressing that sustainable economic relations with China, rather than a `decoupling’, were envisaged); the leaders issued a Hiroshima Action Statement for Resilient Global Food Security, and endorsed a G7 Global Plan for Universal Health Care Action Agenda, as well as an annex on a G7 Vision for Operationalising Data Free Flow with Trust (DEFT—aimed at combining enhanced cross-border data flows with strengthened data privacy and security; a G7 Action Plan for Promoting DEFT had been launched in May 2022); a G7 Leaders’ Hiroshima Vision on Nuclear Disarmament was issued by the May 2023 summit, which also emphasized the importance of ensuring a free and open, inclusive, prosperous, secure, rules-based Indo-Pacific</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: Canada, France, Germany, Italy (holding the presidency in 2024), Japan, UK, USA; European Commission representation</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <!--~ G7 Working Group on Climate and Fragility G7 Virtual Academy for science research under devt in 2023 G7 Dashboard on Gender Gaps-->
                    <org-entry id="OTHER.IO.EERCA.43" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio eerca">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>GUAM—Organization for Democracy and Economic Development </org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>01001 Kyiv, vul. Sofievska 2A, Ukraine</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(44) 206-37-37</telephone>
                              <fax>(44) 206-30-06</fax>
                              <email>secretariat@guam-organization.org</email>
                              <internet>guam-organization.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1997 as a consultative alliance of Georgia, Ukraine, Azerbaijan and Moldova (GUAM)</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">Uzbekistan joined the grouping in April 1999, when it became temporarily known as GUUAM, but withdrew in May 2005</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">formally inaugurated as a full international org. and present name adopted by heads of state in May 2006</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">objectives incl. promoting a regional space of democracy, security, and stable economic and social devt</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">strengthening relations with the European Union and NATO</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">combating terrorism, organized crime, drug trafficking and related activities, incl. through the GUAM Virtual Law Enforcement Center</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">establishing a GUAM energy security council</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">creating the GUAM Free Trade Zone, in accordance with an agreement signed by heads of state meeting in Yalta, Ukraine, in July 2002</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">further economic devt, incl. the creation of an East-West trade corridor and transportation routes for petroleum</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">and participation in conflict resolution and peacekeeping activities</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: Azerbaijan, Georgia, Moldova, Ukraine</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Altai</forename>
                                        <surname>Efendiev</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Azerbaijan</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.18" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio ass">
                         <data-protection date-added="30.06.2017" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Gulf of Guinea Commission</org-entry-name>
                              <alt-name>Commission du Golfe de Guinée—CGG</alt-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Largo Primeiro de Maio, Torres Dipanda, 9° Andar, Luanda, Angola</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">237-13-87</telephone>
                              <fax>233-76-61</fax>
                              <email>cgg@cggrps.org</email>
                              <internet>cggrps.com</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2001</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to promote co-operation among mem. countries, and the peaceful and sustainable devt of natural resources in the sub-region</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in June 2013 the CGG participated, with ECOWAS and CEEAC, in a regional summit on maritime safety and security, convened in Yaoundé, Cameroon, which adopted a Code of Conduct concerning the Prevention and Repression of Piracy, Armed Robbery against Ships, and Illegal Maritime Activities in West and Central Africa</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Sept. 2014, under the auspices of the 3 orgs, an Inter-regional Coordination Centre for Maritime Safety and Security in Central and West Africa was inaugurated, in Yaoundé</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">3rd extraordinary summit of heads of states or govt was convened in April 2023, in Accra, Ghana</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: Angola, Cameroon, Democratic Rep. of Congo, Rep. of the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Nigeria, São Tomé and Príncipe</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Exec. Sec.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>José</forename>
                                        <surname>Mba Abeso</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Equatorial Guinea</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.19" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="edio">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Hansard Society</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Room 1.17, 1st Floor, Millbank Tower, 21-24, Millbank, London, SW1P 4QP, United Kingdom</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(20) 3925-3979</telephone>
                              <email>contact@hansardsociety.org.uk</email>
                              <internet>www.hansardsociety.org.uk</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1944 as Hansard Society for Parlia­mentary Government</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to promote political education and research and the informed discussion of all aspects of modern parliamentary govt</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">presidency is held jtly by the incumbent Speakers of the UK House of Commons and House of Lords</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Dir</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Ruth</forename>
                                        <surname>Fox</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publ. 
            <publ-name>Parliamentary Affairs</publ-name>
             (quarterly)
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="GOVSEC.IO.HEARTOFASIA.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="edio sasia">
                         <!--~ Inactive from 2021-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Heart of Asia-Istanbul Process </org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>HOA-IP</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Malek Asghar St, Kabul, Afghanistan</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(20) 210-6102</telephone>
                              <email>info@hoa.gov.af</email>
                              <internet>www.hoa.gov.af</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2011</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a regional initiative of Afghanistan and Turkey (now known as Türkiye) to promote regional security, political and economic co-operation, through confidence building measures and dialogue, with a focus on promoting stability in Afghanistan</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">Afghanistan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs acts as the de facto Secretariat of the HOA-IP</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">9th HOA-IP ministerial conf.: March 2021, in Dushanbe, Tajikistan</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">subsequently inactive</content-note>
                         <stats>it had been supported by 16 countries, and by orgs incl. the Asian Development Bank, Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia, Economic Cooperation Organization, European Union, North Atlantic Treaty Organization, Organization of Islamic Cooperation, Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, Shanghai Cooperation Organization, and the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.1001" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio sacac">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Ibero-American General Secretariat</org-entry-name>
                              <alt-name>Secretaría General Ibero­americana—SEGIB</alt-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Paseo de Recoletos 8, 28001 Madrid, Spain</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(91) 5901980</telephone>
                              <email>info@segib.org</email>
                              <internet>www.segib.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2003</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">provides institutional and technical support to the Ibero-American summit meetings, monitors programmes agreed at the meetings and strengthens the Ibero-American community</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">meetings of Ibero-American heads of state and of govt are held every 2 years (annually until 2014, the first of which was convened in Guadalajara, Mexico, in 1991) to promote political, economic and cultural co-operation</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the 28th summit meeting, hosted by the Dominican Rep. in March 2023, focused on digital rights, food security, international financing, and environment and climate change; mems approved a third Quadrennial Action Plan for Ibero-American Cooperation (PACCI), covering the period 2023-26</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 22 (19 Spanish and Portuguese-speaking Latin American countries and 3 European countries), 18 int. orgs, 12 assoc. observer countries</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Andrés</forename>
                                        <surname>Allamand</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Chile</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <!--an Action Plan for the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and Ibero-American Indigenous Peoples Declaration were under development in early 2018, and were to be presented to the 26th Ibero-American summit meeting-->
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.20" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                         <!--rc 27.02.2020 cannot confirm address-->
                         <data-protection date-added="14.03.2007" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>International Alliance of Women</org-entry-name>
                              <alt-name>Alliance Internationale des Femmes</alt-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>81 ave Louis Casaï, 1216 Cointrin, Switzerland</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>iawsec@womenalliance.org</email>
                              <internet>womenalliance.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1904</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">founded to obtain equality for women and to encourage women to assume decision-making responsibilities at all levels of society</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">promotes peace, the human rights of women and girls, sexual and reproductive health rights, and gender equality in economic and devt progs</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 41 nat. affiliates and assocs</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Alison</forename>
                                        <surname>Brown</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>USA</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publs 
            <publ-name>International Women's News</publ-name>
             (3 a year), electronic newsletter (monthly)
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.21" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                         <data-protection date-added="14.03.2007" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>International Association for Community Development (IACD)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>305 Baltic Chambers, Wellington St, Glasgow, G2 6HJ, United Kingdom</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(141) 248-1924</telephone>
                              <email>info@iacdglobal.org</email>
                              <internet>www.iacdglobal.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1953</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">promotes community devt across international policies and progs, supports community devt practitioners and encourages the exchange of research and information</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">membership open to individuals and orgs working in or supporting community devt</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">organizes regular international confs and study visits, incl. an annual World Community Development Conference (2023: Darwin, Australia, in June)</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Anna</forename>
                                        <surname>Clarke</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publs 
            <publ-name>IACD Newsletter</publ-name>
             (6 a year), 
            <publ-name>Practice Insights</publ-name>
             (3 a year)
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.22" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>International Commission for the History of Representative and Parliamentary Institutions</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>ICHRPI</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Camera dei Deputati, Palazzo Montecitorio, 00186 Rome, Italy</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <internet>www.ichrpi.com</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1936</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">promotes research into the origin and devt of representative and parliamentary institutions worldwide</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">encourages wide and comparative study of such institutions, both current and historical</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">facilitates the exchange of information and holds an annual conf. (76th: Toledo, Spain, in Sept. 2024)</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 200 individuals in 30 countries</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Joseba</forename>
                                        <surname>Agirreazkuenaga</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Spain</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Mario</forename>
                                        <surname>di Napoli</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Italy</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publs 
            <publ-name>Parliaments, Estates and Representation</publ-name>
             (3 a year), studies
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.28.2" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio ass">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>International Conference on the Great Lakes Region (ICGLR)</org-entry-name>
                              <alt-name>Conference internationale sur la region des grands lacs</alt-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>POB 7076, 38 blvd du Japon, Bujumbura, Burundi</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">22256824</telephone>
                              <fax>22256828</fax>
                              <email>secretariat@icglr.org</email>
                              <internet>www.icglr.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2006 following the signing of the Security, Stability and Development Pact for the Great Lakes Region at the 2nd summit meeting of the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region, held in Dec., in Nairobi, Kenya</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the UN Security Council proposed in 2000 a Great Lakes Conference to initiate a process that would bring together regional leaders to pursue agreement on a set of principles and to articulate programmes of action to help to end the cycle of regional conflict and establish durable peace, stability, security, democracy and devt in the whole region</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the inaugural summit meeting was convened in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, in Nov. 2004</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the Pact on Security, Stability and Development in the Great Lakes Region (adopted by ICGLR heads of state and govt in Dec. 2006, entered into force in June 2008) provides a legal framework for the org.’s activities; 10 protocols that were also adopted in 2006 address: democracy and good governance; judicial co-operation; non-aggression and mutual defence in the Great Lakes Region; the illegal exploitation of natural resources; the prevention of the crime of genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity and all forms of discrimination; prevention and suppression of sexual violence against women and children; protection and assistance to IDPs; property rights of returning persons; and management of communication and information</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the Executive Secretariat of the org. was inaugurated in May 2007 (main divisions and assoc. programmes of action: Peace and Security, Democracy and Good Governance, Economic Development and Regional Integration, Humanitarian and Social Issues, and Gender, Women and Children)</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">subsidiary institutions incl. the Lusaka, Zambia-based ICGLR Levy Mwanawasa Regional Centre for Democracy and Good Governance; ICGLR Regional Training Facility (based in Kampala, Uganda, and focused on sensitizing police units, and judicial and other officials to addressing cases of sexual violence); Joint Intelligence Fusion Centre; Expanded Joint Verification Mechanism (Goma, Democratic Rep. of the Congo—DRC); monitors and investigates security incidents); and the Joint Follow-up Mechanism (Kasese, Uganda; comprises counter-terrorism experts)</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a Special Fund of Reconstruction and Development, hosted by the AfDB, was established in 2008</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">launched in 2009 the ICGLR Regional Initiative against the Illegal Exploitation of Natural Resources (known as the ICGLR RINR, and governed by a Regional Steering Cttee), which aims to break the link between revenues from illegal mining and the financing of rebel groups</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Dec. 2010 ICGLR heads of state and govt signed the Lusaka Declaration, identifying specific tools for the formation of an ICGLR RINR-related regional control mechanism, which incl. the establishment of an ICGLR Regional Certification Mechanism (ICGLR RCM) for natural resource supply chains (the RCM provides assurances to purchasers that gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten extracted in ICGLR mem. states have been sourced, transported, and exported legally); harmonization of national legislation; creation of a regional database on mineral flows; formalization of the artisanal mining sector; and establishment of a whistle-blowing mechanism</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">from 2012 the Conference worked to mediate between govt and rebel forces fighting in eastern DRC; agreement was reached in early Nov. to establish an Expanded Joint Verification Mechanism, to counter rebel groups fighting in that region; an emergency summit meeting was convened in Nov., in Kampala, Uganda, following the advance by the 23 March Movement (`M23’) grouping to take control of Goma (DRC)</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            in Feb. 2013 the leaders of 11 African countries signed the Peace, Security and Cooperation Framework (PSCF) for the DRC and the Region, which aimed to stabilize the Great Lakes region; with the UN, the 
            <xr pageref="N" ref="AU.IO">African Union</xr>
             and 
            <xr pageref="N" ref="SADC.IO">SADC</xr>
            , the ICGLR was tasked with guaranteeing the Framework; the signatories to the Framework committed to protect the future territorial sovereignty and the peace and stability of the DRC
          </content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">an intervention brigade was mandated by the UN Security Council in the following month to target militias in eastern DRC</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            following the declaration by the M23, in early Nov., of the end of its rebellion in eastern DRC, a so-called Kampala dialogue was convened between the DRC Govt and the M23 leadership in Nov.-early Dec., culminating in the signing, under the auspices of the ICGLR and SADC, of final declarations by the parties, providing for, 
            <i>inter alia,</i>
             an envisaged process of disarmament of former M23 combatants
          </content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Jan. 2019 the ICGLR expressed concern at the outcome of the presidential part of a general election held on 30 Dec. 2018 in the DRC, and recommended a recount of votes cast; in mid-Jan. 2019, stating serious concern over the conformity of the official provisional result, the ICGLR, SADC and AU determined to dispatch a jt high-level delegation to the DRC to liaise with national stakeholders on means of resolving the post-electoral crisis; soon afterwards, however, despite continuing evidence of irregularities in the electoral process, Félix Tshisekedi was declared the victor in the presidential poll and promptly inaugurated</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a mini summit of heads of state held in April 2021 initiated a working group to draft recommendations to guide consultations with armed groups in the CAR</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">an ICGLR workshop organized in late Aug.-early Sept. prepared a series of recommendations on strengthening the implementation of the ICGLR RINR, incl. an emphasis on combating impunity for those engaged in natural resources-related crimes</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">adopted in mid-Sept. a roadmap towards achieving peace in the CAR, focused on revitalizing the implementation of the (2019) Political Agreement on Peace and Reconciliation in the CAR</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a mini summit on peace and security in the DRC, organized by the ICGLR in Nov. 2022, urged full compliance with regional peace initiatives focused on the DRC, and the cessation of all polito-military support to the M23 and other armed groupings active there</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Dec. the ICGLR stated grave concern at reports of massacres allegedly committed by M23 against civilians at the end of Nov. in Kishishe, North Kivu (DRC)</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the 10th extraordinary ICGLR summit, held in June 2023, urged M23 and other domestic and foreign armed militants in the DRC to lay down arms and withdraw unconditionally</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            also in that month, a 1st quadripartite summit was convened under 
            <xr pageref="N" ref="AU.IO">AU</xr>
             auspices, in Luanda (Angola), to address the harmonization of ongoing interventions in the DRC, with participation by the ICGLR, 
            <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XB.IO.TXT.73">EAC</xr>
            , 
            <xr pageref="N" ref="SADC.IO">SADC</xr>
            , and 
            <xr pageref="N" ref="WB0231XB.IO.TXT.67">Communauté Economique des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale</xr>
             (the `Quadripartite Platform’)
          </content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a Meeting of Chiefs of Defence of the Quadripartite was convened in Oct., in Addis Ababa</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">COVID-19, HIV/AIDS, refugees, preventing sexual and gender-based violence, and promoting the disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration of former militants were cross-cutting themes of the ICGLR’s activities in 2024</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">maintains centres in Goma, DRC, and Lusaka, Zambia</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: Angola, Burundi, Central African Rep., Democratic Rep. of Congo, Rep. of the Congo, Kenya, Rwanda, South Sudan, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Exec. Sec.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>João Samuel</forename>
                                        <surname>Caholo</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Angola</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <!--spec fund for reconstruction and devt -->
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.23" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                         <!--GS 28.03.2016 Address confirmed from secondary source-->
                         <!--~ partnership with SME Global-->
                         <data-protection date-added="29.08.2007" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>International Democrat Union</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Mies-van-der-Rohe Str., 80807 Munich, Germany</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(89) 1243301</telephone>
                              <email>secretariat@idu.org</email>
                              <internet>idu.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1983</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">facilitates the exchange of information and views among centre and centre-right political parties</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">organizes campaigning seminars for politicians and party workers</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">holds Party Leaders' meetings every 3 years, executive meetings, IDU Forums (with wider participation) twice a year</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: the International Young Democrat Union, International Women’s Democrat Union, and more than 80 political parties worldwide, assoc. mems in 6 regional unions (the Asia-Pacific Democratic Union, Democratic Union of Africa, Caribbean Democrat Union, European People’s Party, European Conservatives and Reformists Party and Unión de Partidos Latinoamericanos)</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Chair.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Stephen</forename>
                                        <surname>Harper</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Canada</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Christian</forename>
                                        <surname>Kattner</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Germany</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.24" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="edio casee eerca">
                         <!--GS 13.07.2017 Could not confirm the no. of feds-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>International Federation of Resistance Fighters (FIR)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Magdalenenstr. 19, 10365 Berlin, Germany</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(30) 55579083-4</telephone>
                              <fax>(30) 55579083-9</fax>
                              <email>office@fir.at</email>
                              <internet>www.fir.at</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1951</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">supports the medical and social welfare of former resistance fighters</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">works to promote peace, disarmament and human rights, and to counter fascism and neo-fascism</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 54 nat. feds in 25 countries</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Vilmos</forename>
                                        <surname>Hanti</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Hungary</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Dr</title>
                                        <forename>Ulrich</forename>
                                        <surname>Schneider</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Germany</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.24.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee sacac mena sasia eerca fea ass">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assist­ance (International IDEA)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Strömsborg, 103 34 Stockholm, Sweden</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(8) 698-3700</telephone>
                              <fax>(8) 20-2422</fax>
                              <email>info@idea.int</email>
                              <internet>www.idea.int</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1995</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to advance sustainable democracy in both established and new democracies</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">works with practitioners and institutions promoting democracy in Africa, Asia, Arab states and Latin America</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            in Nov. 2023 issued 
            <publ-name>The Global State of Democracy 2023</publ-name>
                         </content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 31 states, 2 observer</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Dr</title>
                                        <forename>Kevin</forename>
                                        <surname>Casas-Zamora</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Costa Rica</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.25" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="edio casee eerca">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>International Institute for Peace</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Möllwaldplatz 5/2, 1040 Vienna, Austria</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(1) 504-64-37</telephone>
                              <fax>(1) 505-32-36</fax>
                              <email>office@iip.at</email>
                              <internet>www.iipvienna.com</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1956</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">NGO with consultative status at ECOSOC and UNESCO</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">studies conflict prevention; new structures in international law; security issues in Europe and worldwide</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">mems: individuals and corp. bodies invited by the executive board</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Dr</title>
                                        <forename>Hannes</forename>
                                        <surname>Swoboda</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Austria</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Dir</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Stephanie</forename>
                                        <surname>Fenkart</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publ. 
            <publ-name>Peace and Security</publ-name>
             (quarterly)
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <!--Intl Peace Inst in Social Welfare-->
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.26" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee fea">
                         <data-protection date-added="16.06.2005" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>International Institute for Strategic Studies</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>IISS</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Arundel House, 6 Temple Pl., London, WC2R 2PG, United Kingdom</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(20) 7379-7676</telephone>
                              <email>iiss@iiss.org</email>
                              <internet>www.iiss.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1958 </found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">focuses on the study of the role of force in international relations</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">thematic research progs in 2023 included cyber power and future conflict; geoeconomics and strategy; conflict, security and devt; strategy, technology and arms control; and defence and military analysis</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">organizes high-level security summits, lectures and broadcasts</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">maintains offices in Manama, Bahrain, Singapore, Washington, DC, USA, and Berlin, Germany</content-note>
                         <stats>mems in 100 countries</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Sir</title>
                                        <forename>John&#160;M. W.</forename>
                                        <surname>Chipman</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>UK</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publ. 
            <publ-name>Survival: Global Politics and Strategy</publ-name>
             (bimonthly)
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.27" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                         <data-protection date-added="20.04.2005" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Intersex Association (ILGA)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>20 rue Rothschild, 5th Floor, 1202 Geneva, Switzerland</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="Y">227313254</telephone>
                              <email>info@ilga.org</email>
                              <internet>ilga.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1978</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">works to abolish legal, social and economic discrimination against homosexual and bisexual women and men, and transexuals and intersex people throughout the world</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">co-ordinates political action at international level</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">co-operates with other supportive movements</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">holds World Confs every 2-3 years (2022: Los Angeles, USA, in May)</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: more than 1,700 nat. and reg. asscns in over 160 countries</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Exec. Dir</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Julia</forename>
                                        <surname>Ehrt</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Germany</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publs 
            <publ-name>ILGA State-Sponsored Homophobia Report</publ-name>
            , map of gay and lesbian rights worldwide
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <!--~ new entry for International Maritime Security Construct, f. 2019 - referenced in GCC i.20-->
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.28" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio eerca">
                         <data-protection date-added="21.08.2007" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>International Peace Bureau</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>IPB</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Marienstr. 19-20, 10117 Berlin, Germany</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(30) 12084549</telephone>
                              <email>info@ipb-office.berlin</email>
                              <internet>www.ipb.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1891</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">promotes international co-operation for general and complete disarmament and the non-violent solution of international conflicts</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">co-ordinates and represents peace movements at the UN</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">conducts projects on Disarmament for Sustainable Development and the abolition of nuclear weapons</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">administers a Global Campaign on Military Spending</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">organized a World Peace Congress (2021: Barcelona, Spain, in Oct.), and an International Summit for Peace in Ukraine (held in June 2023, in Vienna, Austria)</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 300 orgs in 70 countries and individual mems</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Co-Pres</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Corazon</forename>
                                        <surname>Valdez Fabros</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Philip</forename>
                                        <surname>Jennings</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publs 
            <publ-name>Newsletter</publ-name>
             , other reports
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.30" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Interpeace</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>
                2
                <sc>e</sc>
                 chemin Eugène-Rigot, 1202 Geneva, Switzerland
              </verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">224045900</telephone>
                              <fax>224045901</fax>
                              <email>info@interpeace.org</email>
                              <internet>www.interpeace.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1994 as a project of the UN (`War-torn Societies’); became an independent non-governmental org. in 2000; present name adopted in 2006</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">undertakes peacebuilding and post-conflict progs in some 15 countries and administers the Principles for Inclusive Peace initiative</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in March 2021 adopted a strategy for the period 2021-25 themed `Resilient Peace’</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the African Union in Sept. 2022</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">offices in Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire; Brussels, Belgium; Guatemala City, Guatemala; Nairobi, Kenya; New York, USA </content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Scott M.</forename>
                                        <surname>Webber</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>France/USA</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publs 
            <publ-name>Annual Report</publ-name>
            , 
            <publ-name>Journal of Peacebuilding</publ-name>
                         </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="OTHER.IO.EERCA.85" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="casee sacac ass mena sasia fea eerca">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Inter-Parliamentary Union</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>IPU</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>5 chemin du Pommier, CP 330, 1218 Le Grand-Saconnex/Geneva, Switzerland</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">229194150</telephone>
                              <fax>229194160</fax>
                              <email>postbox@mail.ipu.org</email>
                              <internet>www.ipu.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1889</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to promote peace, co-operation and representative democracy by providing a forum for multilateral political debate between representatives of national parliaments</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">Fifth World Conference of Speakers of Parliament was initiated as a virtual event in Aug. 2020 and was concluded in Vienna, hosted by the Austrian Govt, in Sept. 2021</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: nat. parliaments of 180 sovereign states; 14 inter-parliamentary asscns as assoc. mems</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Duarte</forename>
                                        <surname>Pacheco</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Portugal</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Martin</forename>
                                        <surname>Chungong</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Cameroon</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publs 
            <publ-name>Annual Report</publ-name>
            , 
            <publ-name>IPU Information Brochure</publ-name>
             (annually), 
            <publ-name>Women in Parliament</publ-name>
             (annually), 
            <publ-name>IPU Strategy</publ-name>
                         </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.32" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="mena">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Jewish Agency for Israel (JAFI)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>POB 92, 48 King George St, Jerusalem 91000 Israel</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 6202222</telephone>
                              <email>pniyottzibor@jafi.org</email>
                              <internet>www.jewishagency.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1929</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">reconstituted 1971 as an instrument through which world Jewry can work to develop a national home; constituents are the World Zionist Organization, United Israel Appeal, Inc. (USA), and Keren Hayesod</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Amira</forename>
                                        <surname>Aharonovich</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.33" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio sacac">
                         <!--VK 18.03.2019 web has restricted access-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Latin American and Caribbean Parliament</org-entry-name>
                              <alt-name>Parlamento Latinoamericano y Caribeño—Parlatino</alt-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Casilla 1527, Edif. Parlamento Latinoamericano, Apdo Zona 4, Panamá Ministerio R.R.E.E., Panama</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">201-9000</telephone>
                              <email>info@parlatino.org</email>
                              <internet>www.parlatino.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1964</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">permanent democratic institution</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to promote the movement towards economic, political and cultural integration of the Latin American countries, and to uphold human rights, peace and security</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Silvia</forename>
                                        <surname>del Rosario Giacoppo</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Argentina</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="GOVT.IO.LAS.ASS.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ass">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>League of Arab States </org-entry-name>
                              <alt-name>Arab League</alt-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>POB 11642, Arab League Bldg, Tahrir Sq., Cairo, Egypt</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 575-0511</telephone>
                              <fax>(2) 574-0331</fax>
                              <email>communication.dept@las.int</email>
                              <internet>www.lasportal.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1945</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to strengthen mutual ties and to co-ordinate policies and activities to support the common good of all the Arab countries</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 22 states, incl. Comoros, Djibouti, Mauritania, Somalia, Sudan; Eritrea has observer status</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Ahmed</forename>
                                        <surname>Aboul Gheit</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Egypt</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.34" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                         <data-protection date-added="11.04.2007" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Liberal International </org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>LI</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>1 Whitehall Pl., London, SW1A 2HD, United Kingdom</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(20) 7839-5905</telephone>
                              <email>office@liberal-international.org</email>
                              <internet>www.liberal-international.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1947</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">co-ordinates foreign policy work of mem. parties, and promotes freedom, tolerance, democracy, international understanding, protection of human rights and market-based economics</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in 2019 initiated a Women in Political Parties (WIPP) Index; an LI Democratic Training Academy was launched in 2020</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">organizes an annual Prize for Freedom</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">has consultative status at ECOSOC and the Council of Europe</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">has cttees on human rights, climate justice, and fair trade</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">63rd Congress: Sofia, Bulgaria, in June-July 2022, on the theme `Reconstructing a liberal world order’</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 96 full mems (of which 41 are in Europe and 23 in sub-Saharan Africa, and including the International Federation of Liberal Youth and the International Network of Liberal Women), 1 individual mem., 10 co-operating orgs, 12 think tanks</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Hakima</forename>
                                        <surname>El Haité</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Morocco</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>William</forename>
                                        <surname>Townsend</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>UK</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publs 
            <publ-name>LI News</publ-name>
            , 
            <publ-name>LI Human Rights Bulletin</publ-name>
             (quarterly)
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="OTHER.IO.GOVTSEC.LIMAGROUP.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="edio">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Lima Group</org-entry-name>
                              <alt-name>Grupo de Lima</alt-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Aug. 2017 the ministers responsible for foreign affairs of 12 states, meeting in Lima, Peru, adopted the Lima Declaration, in which they resolved collectively to facilitate a peaceful resolution to the ongoing political crisis in Venezuela</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">membership was subsequently expanded</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the Lima Group condemned as illegitimate the presidential election staged in Venezuela in May 2018, won by incumbent Pres. Nicolás Maduro Moros, and determined to reduce the level of diplomatic relations with Venezuela and to lobby international lenders to desist from offering loans to that country without prior approval from the Venezuelan National Assembly</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Jan. 2019, following the commencement of Maduro’s second term of office, the Lima Group supported a declaration by Juan Guaidó Márquez, Pres. of the Venezuelan National Assembly, that he had assumed the role of interim Pres. of Venezuela</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in early Feb. 11 mem. states (excluding Guyana, Mexico and Saint Lucia) issued a jt statement calling for a peaceful change of power in Venezuela, for that country’s military to support Guaidó, and for international co-operation in taking measures to prevent the Maduro regime from conducting financial and trading transactions</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in that month the Guaidó-led Venezuelan regime was admitted to the Lima Group</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Aug. 2020 the Group rejected plans by Maduro to stage legislative elections in Venezuela in Dec., deeming these to lack sufficient guarantees or breadth of participation</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the elections went ahead, albeit boycotted by many opposition politicians, and in Jan. 2021 the Lima Group declared it would not recognize the legitimacy of the newly-installed National Assembly</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in March Argentina announced its departure from the Group; Mexico left in May, and in Aug. Peru and Saint Lucia followed suit</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in late Dec. 2022 the Venezuelan National Assembly voted to dissolve the position of interim Pres., with effect from 5 Jan. 2023</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Guyana, Honduras, Panama, Paraguay; observers: Barbados, Grenada, Jamaica, Uruguay, USA, Venezuelan opposition representation, European Union, Organization of American States</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="OTHER.IO.FEA.72" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="fea edio">
                         <!--rc 14.04.2023 cannot confirm chair-->
                         <data-protection date-added="06.03.2010" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Melanesian Spearhead Group (MSG)</org-entry-name>
                              <alt-name>Groupe fer de lance Mélanésien</alt-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>MSG Secretariat, Private Bag 9105, Independence Garden, Port Vila, Vanuatu</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">27791</telephone>
                              <fax>27691</fax>
                              <email>msg.secretariat@msg.int</email>
                              <internet>www.msgsec.info</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1986 to promote political and cultural co-operation among the Melanesian peoples</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">supports independence process in New Caledonia</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in July 1993 a free trade agreement was signed, awarding each mem. country most-favoured nation status for all trade</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">regular meetings of Group trade and economic officials are also held</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a permanent constitution was adopted by the Group in March 2007</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a new MSG Melanesian Free Trade Agreement was adopted in 2016, expanding and incorporating previous accords and covering trade in services, investment and labour mobility</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the 7th Melanesian Arts and Culture Festival (MACFEST) was organized in July 2023, in Port Vila, Vanuatu (the inaugural edition had been held in 1991)</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the 22nd summit was held in Aug. 2023, in Port Vila, with additional participation by Indonesia, Australia, the People’s Rep. of China, and the United Liberation Movement of West Papua (an application for membership submitted by the latter was not approved)</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">matters addressed included regional security, climate change (a Vanuatu- and Tuvalu-led Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty initiative was endorsed), nuclear waste, implementation of the Melanesian Free Trade Agreement, and decolonization in New Caledonia</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the 23rd summit was to be hosted by Fiji, in Suva, during 2024</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">MSG observer groups may monitor elections</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: Fiji, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Vanuatu, Front de Libération Nationale Kanake Socialiste (New Caledonia); assoc. mem: Indonesia</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Leonard</forename>
                                        <surname>Louma</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Papua New Guinea</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="GOVTANDPOLS.IO.2" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio fea mena sacac">
                         <!--GS 23.09.2016 Address details confirmed from secondary source-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>MIKTA</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>c/o Dept of Foreign Affairs and Trade, R. G. Casey Bldg, John McEwen Crescent, Barton ACT 0221, Australia</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 6261-1111</telephone>
                              <internet>www.mikta.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2013</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">inaugural meeting of ministers responsible for foreign affairs of the 5 MIKTA countries was held on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly, in New York, USA, in Sept. 2013 in order to establish a cross-regional consultative partnership; 5th ministerial meeting, convened in Seoul, Rep. of Korea, in May 2015, adopted a vision statement reaffirming mems’ shared values and determination to promote multilateral co-operation and to strengthen global governance</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">subsequently the ministers agreed to meet 2-3 times a year</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a MIKTA Interfaith and Intercultural Dialogue was initiated in Dec. 2016</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the 8th consultation meeting of MIKTA speakers of parliament was held in March 2023, in İstanbul, Türkiye</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">priority themes in 2023 were strengthening multilateralism, inclusive recovery and digital transformation</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: Australia, Indonesia, Rep. of Korea, Mexico, Türkiye</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="OTHER.IO.CASEE.89" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="casee">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Multinational Peace Force South-Eastern Europe (MPFSEE)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>2nd km Tyrnavos-Larissa, 40100 Greece</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">932311</telephone>
                              <fax>932600</fax>
                              <internet>www.seebrig.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1999</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">also known as South-Eastern Europe Brigade (SEEBRIG)</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a regional co-operation structure which aims to contribute to regional security and stability in the Euro-Atlantic area and to foster good relations among the countries of South-East Europe</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">5,000 troops in units allocated to the force remain at their permanent locations, and committed under a task force principle for exercises and operations</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">rotation of the force headquarters (every 4 years), command of the force (every 2 years) and the presidency of the Politico-Military Steering Committee (every 2 years)</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 7 countries, incl. Albania, Bulgaria, Greece, North Macedonia, Romania, Türkiye</stats>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Slovenia, Ukraine, Serbia and the USA have observer status</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Commdr</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Brig.-Gen.</title>
                                        <forename>Aristeidis</forename>
                                        <surname>Iliopoulos</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Greece</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="OTHER.GOV.IO.1.3" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Munich Security Conference</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Karolinenplatz 3, 80333 München, Germany</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>office@securityconference.org</email>
                              <internet>securityconference.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1963 as the Internationale Wehrkunde-Begegnung</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">forum for international debate on security issues and policies</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">convenes as an annual event (2024: in Feb.) and hosts regular high-level meetings, strategy retreats, roundtable debates and conversations</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">research and discussion activities focus on key prog. areas: defence, global order, human security, sustainability, and technology</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Chair.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Dr</title>
                                        <forename>Christoph</forename>
                                        <surname>Heusgen</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publs 
            <publ-name>Munich Security Report</publ-name>
             (annually), 
            <publ-name>Munich Security Briefs</publ-name>
            , other debriefs, analyses, special reports
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.35" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                         <data-protection date-added="15.06.2020" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>NATO Parliamentary Assembly</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>3 pl. du Petit Sablon, 1000 Brussels, Belgium</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 513-28-65</telephone>
                              <fax>(2) 514-18-47</fax>
                              <email>press@nato-pa.int</email>
                              <internet>www.nato-pa.int</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1955 as the NATO Parliamentarians' Conference; name changed in 1966 to North Atlantic Assembly; present name adopted in 1999</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">serves as the interparlia­mentary assembly of the North Atlantic Alliance</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">holds 2 plenary sessions a year and meetings of cttees (Political, Defence and Security, Economics and Security, Civil Dimension of Security, Science and Technology) to facilitate parliamentary awareness and understanding of key Alliance security issues, to provide the Alliance govts with a collective parliamentary voice, to contribute to a greater degree of transparency of NATO policies, and to strengthen the transatlantic dialogue</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 274 delegates from 31 NATO mem. countries, 10 assoc. countries, 4 Mediterranean assoc. countries, and 8 parliamentary observer delegations</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Joëlle</forename>
                                        <surname>Garriaud-Maylam</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>France</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Ruxandra</forename>
                                        <surname>Popa</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>France</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.36" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio sacac sasia fea eerca">
                         <!--VK 22.07.2019 address not confirmed-->
                         <!--GS 28.02.2017 Website not working. Information on secondary sources is not recent-->
                         <!--GS 15.06.2016 Confirmed mem stats from secondary source-->
                         <!--GS 29.03.2016 The member stats document is not working properly. Could not confirm stats-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Non-Aligned Movement</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>NAM</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>c/o Permanent Mission of Azerbaijan to the UN, 633 Third Ave, Suite 3210, New York, NY 10017, USA</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(212) 371-2832</telephone>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1961 by a meeting of 25 heads of state or of govt, with the aim of linking countries that had refused to adhere to the main East/West military and political blocs</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">co-ordination bureau established in 1973</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">works for the establishment of a new international economic order, and especially for better terms for countries producing raw materials</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">maintains special funds for agricultural devt, improvement of food production and the financing of buffer stocks</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">South Commission promotes co-operation between developing countries</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">seeks changes at the UN to give developing countries greater decision-making power</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">holds summit meeting of heads of state or of govt normally every 3 years</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in May 2020 convened an exceptional videoconferenced summit themed `United against COVID-19’</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a commemorative conf., marking 60 years since the movement’s inaugural summit, was held in Oct. 2021, in Belgrade, Serbia; a NAM Parliamentary Network was established in the following month (its 2nd conf. was held in March 2023)</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a NAM Youth Summit was convened in July 2022, in Shusha, Azerbaijan</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a meeting, held in the Azerbaijani capital, Baku, in March 2023 focused on means of reviving the post-pandemic global economy</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">19th summit meeting held in Kampala, Uganda, in Jan. 2024</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 120 countries, 18 observer countries and 10 observer orgs</stats>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">Chair. (2024-26) Uganda</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <!--hc 2022 Uganda to be next Chair-->
                    <org-entry id="IO.GOV.POL.234" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee eerca">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Nordic Council</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Ved Stranden 18, 1061 Copenhagen, Denmark</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">33-96-04-00</telephone>
                              <email>nordisk-rad@norden.org</email>
                              <internet>www.norden.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1952</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">facilitates co-operation between Nordic parliaments and govts</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a thematic session is convened annually (2024: in April, in Tórshavn, Faroe Islands, on `Security, peace and preparedness in the North Atlantic’)</content-note>
                         <stats>87 elected mems</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Jorodd</forename>
                                        <surname>Asphjell</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Norway</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Kristina</forename>
                                        <surname>Háfoss</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Faroe Islands</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publs 
            <publ-name>Nordic News</publ-name>
             (electronic newsletter), 
            <publ-name>State of the Nordic Region</publ-name>
            , thematic reports, policy studies
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="OTHER.IO.NORDIC.78" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Nordic Council of Ministers</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Ved Stranden 18, 1061, Copen­hagen, Denmark</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">33-96-04-00</telephone>
                              <email>nmr@norden.org</email>
                              <internet>www.norden.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1971</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">supports intergovernmental co-operation in the Nordic region</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">mandated to work towards the Nordic Prime Ministers Vision 2030, adopted in Aug. 2019, that the Nordic region becomes the most integrated and sustainable in the world</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">co-operates with adjacent areas includes the Baltic States, to contribute to peace, security and stability in Europe (in March 2022 suspended all co-operation and ongoing projects in Russia and Belarus, following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine)</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a formal annual meeting of Nordic prime ministers is convened (2023: in July in Vestmannaeyjar, Iceland, with additional participation by Canada’s premier, Justin Trudeau); informal gatherings of Nordic prime ministers are also organized</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a Nordic-Baltic Scholarship Scheme awards grants to students, teachers, scientists, civil servants and parliamentarians</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden (holding the rotating presidency in 2024); Åland, Faroe Islands and Greenland participate at the highest level</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Karen</forename>
                                        <surname>Ellemann</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Denmark</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <!--~ Removed SAsia and ASS NATO versions 6.vi.22-->
                    <!--~ Colombia - a global partner-->
                    <org-entry id="IO.OTHER.GOVTPOL.02" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="mena">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>North Atlantic Treaty Organization</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>NATO</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>blvd Léopold III, 1110 Brussels, Belgium</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 707-41-11</telephone>
                              <fax>(2) 707-45-79</fax>
                              <email>natodoc@hq.nato.int</email>
                              <internet>www.nato.int</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">NATO implements the objectives of the Atlantic Alliance, which was established on the basis of the 1949 North Atlantic Treaty and aims to provide common security for its mems through co-operation and consultation in political, military and economic fields, as well as scientific, environmental, and other non-military aspects</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the highest authority of the Alliance is the North Atlantic Council (NAC), which meets at the level of permanent representatives of mem. countries, ministers of foreign affairs, defence ministers, or heads of state or govt (2023: Vilnius, Lithuania, in July)</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in March 2011 NATO initiated Operation Unified Protector in order to monitor and enforce a UN-imposed arms embargo against the Libyan authorities; later in that month NATO mems determined to enforce the UN sanctioned no-fly zone over Libya, alongside a military operation to prevent further attacks on civilians and civilian-populated areas, undertaken by a multinational coalition under British, France and US command; on 27 March, NATO mem. states agreed to assume full command of the operation to protect civilians in Libya; the Operation was extended for 90 days from 27 June, and for a further 90 days in late Sept.</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in late Oct., following the capture by opposition forces of the last remaining govt-controlled city, Sirte, and the arrest (and subsequent death) of the Libyan leader, Col Muammar al-Qaddafi, the NAC authorized the conclusion of the Operation with effect from the end of that month</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">leaders attending the Sept. 2014 Newport, UK summit meeting of NATO heads of state and govt expressed willingness to develop a long-term partnership with Libya, possibly leading to that country’s membership in the Alliance’s so-called Mediterranean Dialogue</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">Iraq was granted NATO partner status in April 2011; in early 2012 a NATO Transition Cell was established in Iraq to support the devt of the partnership</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in June 2012 the NAC met, at the request of Turkey (officially known as Türkiye since 1 June 2022), in accordance with Article 4 of the North Atlantic Treaty—invoked when the territorial integrity, political independence or security of any of the parties is threatened—following the shooting down by Syrian forces of a Turkish military jet; in Dec. NATO ministers of foreign affairs agreed to strengthen Turkey's air defence capabilities along its border with Syria; meeting in late Aug. 2013 the NAC strongly condemned the apparent use on 21 Aug. of chemical weapons against civilians in Ghouta, Damascus, Syria; the NAC determined to continue closely to review the situation in Syria and to continue to support Turkey in protecting the Alliance’s south-eastern border</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in July 2015 NATO’s Sec.-Gen. strongly condemned a bomb attack on the town of Suruç, in southeastern Turkey, near its border with Syria, which had resulted in around 30 fatalities and numerous injuries; at the end of the month, at the request of the Turkish Govt, under Article 4 of the North Atlantic Treaty, the NAC gathered again to consider the ongoing threat to peace and security in Turkey; the Council expressed strong solidarity with that country, and determined to observe closely the situation in the southeastern border area; in late Nov. an extraordinary meeting of the NAC emphasized solidarity with Turkey following the shooting down of a Russian plane that had entered its airspace</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in May 2017 the NATO Sec.-Gen. stated that the Alliance would participate formally in a non-combat capacity in the global coalition against Islamic State, and noted that a recently established Joint Intelligence and Security Division would place a particular focus on foreign fighters travelling to Iraq and Syria</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Feb. 2017 NATO defence ministers agreed to establish a regional Hub for the South, to address threats arising from North Africa and the Middle East; this—based at Joint Allied Force Command Naples (Italy)—was declared fully operational in July 2018</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in July 2018, at the request of the Iraqi Govt—which had declared victory over Islamic State in December 2017—NATO heads of state and govt authorized a new NATO Mission Iraq (NMI), with a focus on training; the NMI was established in Oct. 2018; in early Jan. 2020 NATO temporarily suspended the NMI’s activities, for safety reasons, following the assassination on 2 Jan., on Iraqi soil, by a US air strike, of Gen. Qassem Soleimani, commander of the elite Quds Force unit of the Iranian Revolutionary Guards Corps; on 6 Jan. the Iraqi legislature passed a non-binding resolution demanding that foreign military forces withdraw from Iraq and cease using its land, waters and airspace; NATO’s Sec.-Gen. reiterated that the killing was an act made unilaterally by the US Administration, and noted that there was consensus among the NATO Allies in condemning support by Iran for various terrorist groups, unanimous agreement that Iran should never acquire nuclear weaponry, and concern over a recent escalation of provocations and hostile acts perpetrated by Iran</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Feb. 2021 NATO ministers responsible for defence determined to strengthen and expand the NMI from 500 to 4,000 personnel, on the basis of a request by the Iraqi Govt, with a focus on countering the continuing threat from Islamic State</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in June 2022 a trilateral memorandum was concluded between Finland, Sweden and Türkiye which addressed the latter’s concerns that, upon the planned admission of those countries into the org., any arms exports should not assist the separatist Kurdistan Workers’ Party—Partiya Karkeren Kurdistan</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in mid-March 2023, following a meeting with his Finnish counterpart, Türkiye’s Pres. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan announced that, as Finland had taken `authentic and concrete’ measures to address Türkiye’s security concerns (as agreed in the June 2022 Trilateral Memorandum), ratification of that country’s NATO application would proceed through the Turkish legislature; this was effected at the end of March 2023; on 4 April Finland formally deposited its instrument of accession to NATO; in July Pres. Erdoğan gave his approval for Sweden’s accession</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 32 states, incl. Türkiye</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Jens</forename>
                                        <surname>Stoltenberg</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Norway</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="INTORGS.GOV.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio eerca">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Northern Forum</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>677000 Republic of Sakha (Yakutiya), Suite 407, Public Center, Kurashova 24, Russian Federation</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(4112) 50-84-50</telephone>
                              <email>secretariat@northernforum.org</email>
                              <internet>www.northernforum.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1991</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to improve the quality of life of northern peoples through support for sustainable devt and socioeconomic co-operation between the regional govts of the North</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">14th General Assembly held in April 2021</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 14 subnational or regional govts from 5 countries</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Chair.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Mika</forename>
                                        <surname>Riipi</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Lapland</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Exec. Dir</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Vladimir</forename>
                                        <surname>Vasilev</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <!--~ Open Data Barometer-->
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.38" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio eerca mena">
                         <data-protection date-added="29.01.2008" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>OPCW</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Johan de Wittlaan 32, 2517 JR The Hague, Netherlands</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(70) 4163300</telephone>
                              <fax>(70) 3063535</fax>
                              <email>public.affairs@opcw.org</email>
                              <internet>www.opcw.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>April 1997, on the entry into force of the Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC)</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">CWC states parties are obligated to declare any chemical weapons-related activities, to secure and destroy any stockpiles of chemical weapons within the stipulated deadlines; this was declared to have been achieved by July 2023</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">OPCW verifies the irreversible destruction of declared chemical weapons stockpiles, as well as the elimination of all declared chemical weapons production facilities</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">mem. states undertake to provide protection and assistance if chemical weapons have been used against, or threaten, a state party, and, together with OPCW inspectors, monitor the non-diversion of chemicals for activities prohibited under the CWC and verify the consistency of industrial chemical declarations</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the OPCW is a lead partner in the UN Counter-Terrorism Implementation Task Force’s working group concerned with preventing and responding to weapons of mass destruction</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in March 2013 the UN Sec.-Gen. invited the OPCW to assist a UN mission which was appointed at that time to investigate allegations relating to the use of chemical weapons by combatants in the ongoing conflict in Syria (which was not a signatory of the CWC)</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in mid-Sept. the mission’s report confirmed that chemical weapons had been used in Syria</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">at that time the Syrian Govt deposited its instrument of accession to the CWC in accordance with a Russo-US agreement on a framework for the safeguarding and destruction of Syria's chemical weapons stockpiles</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Oct. the UN Security Council authorized the deployment of a jt OPCW-UN mission to supervise the destruction by the Syrian authorities of all chemical weapons stockpiles and production facilities; this was reportedly achieved by Aug. 2014 and the mission was terminated in the following month</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">from April 2014 an OPCW Fact-Finding Mission (FFM) was tasked with investigating the reported use of toxic chemicals for hostile purposes in Syria</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">from Aug. 2015-Nov. 2017 it was supported by a Joint Investigative Mechanism, comprising experts appointed by the UN and OPCW, and from 2019 by an OPCW Investigation and Inspection Team, which aimed to ascertain the perpetrators of any attacks</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">by Feb. 2024 the FFM had issued 21 reports covering 74 instances of alleged chemical weapons use (of which it concluded that chemical weapons were used or likely used in 20 instances, including in March 2017 at Ltamenah, April 2017 at Khan Sheikhoun, and Feb. 2018 at Saraqib)</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in April 2018 the OPCW issued the findings of a technical assistance team that, at the request of the UK Govt, had investigated the nature of a nerve agent that had been deployed offensively in Salisbury, UK, in March</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">an OPCW Centre for Chemistry and Technology (the ChemTech Centre), incorporating the org.’s existing laboratory, was inaugurated in May 2023</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 193</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Fernando</forename>
                                        <surname>Arias</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Spain</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XB.IO.TXT.52" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio ass mena">
                         <!--VK 15.10.2018 Ireland joined as observer https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2018/10/11/ireland-joins-french-speaking-club-bid-wield-clout-brexit/-->
                         <!--GS 29.03.2016 Email not confirmed-->
                         <!--alt name in English or else French version in UN observers section-->
                         <data-protection date-added="18.04.2007" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Organisation Internationale de la Francophonie</org-entry-name>
                              <alt-name>International Organization of La Francophonie</alt-name>
                              <abbr>La Francophonie</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>19-21 ave Bosquet, 75007 Paris, France</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">1-44-37-33-25</telephone>
                              <internet>www.francophonie.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1970 as l'Agence de coopération culturelle et technique</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">promotes co-operation among French-speaking countries in the areas of education, culture, peace and democracy, and technology</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">implements decisions of the Sommet francophone</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">technical and financial assistance supports projects in every mem. country, mainly to aid rural people</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a Parliamentary Assembly of the Francophonie is also based in Paris</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Nov. 2020 Burundi was readmitted after a 4-year suspension</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the World Health Org. in April 2021</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in June Mali was suspended from participation in the org. following the detention of that country’s interim leaders by the military</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">18th summit meeting: Djerba, Tunisia, in Nov. 2022</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">19th Jeux de la Francophonie (a sporting event): late July-early Aug. 2023, in Kinshasa, DRC</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Dec. the Perm. Council suspended Niger from participating in org. bodies following a military coup in July</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 54 mem. states and regional authorities, 27 countries with observer status and 7 assoc. mems</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Louise</forename>
                                        <surname>Mushikiwabo</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Rwanda</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publ. 
            <publ-name>Journal de l'Agence de la Francophonie</publ-name>
             (quarterly)
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="OTHER.IO.SACAC.123" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio sacac">
                         <!--GS 24.08.2017 Ditto-->
                         <!--GS 28.02.2017 Email could not be confirmed. Have a contact form-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>OECS</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Morne Fortune, POB 179, Castries, Saint Lucia</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">455-6327</telephone>
                              <fax>453-1628</fax>
                              <email>media@oecs.int</email>
                              <internet>www.oecs.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1981 by the 7 states which fmrly belonged to the West Indies Associated States (f. 1966)</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to promote the harmonized devt of trade and industry in mem. states</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a single market was created on 1 Jan. 1988</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">principal institutions are the Authority of Heads of Government (the supreme policymaking body), the Council of Ministers, the OECS Assembly, the Economic Affairs Council, and the OECS Commission</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">other functional divisions cover devt co-operation and resource mobilization, economic affairs and regional integration, international relations, social and environmental devt, programme management, and legal services</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">an agreement to establish an economic union was signed in Dec. 2009</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a Revised Treaty of Basseterre Establishing the OECS Economic Union was signed by heads of govt of 6 mem. states (Antigua and Barbuda, Grenada, Dominica, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and Saint Lucia) in June 2010, and entered into effect in Feb. 2011</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the inaugural meeting of the OECS Economic Affairs Council took place in June 2014</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a Regional Task Force on Free Circulation of Goods (incl. a Port Management Committee that was established in March 2016) facilitates a planned Free Circulation Regime</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in March 2019 OECS leaders participating in a special summit strongly criticized a decision by EU ministers responsible for finance to incorporate several Caribbean states on a list of 15 countries designated as non-co-operative tax jurisdictions (the issue was raised by the OECS at the WTO in Oct. 2020)</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in 2021 an initiative aimed at establishing integrated border systems in the OECS was launched</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the 73rd meeting of the OECS Authority, convened in June 2023, in Saint Kitts and Nevis, gave consideration to a revised Eastern Caribbean Regional Ocean Policy (ECROP); reaffirmed unreserved solidarity with the people of the British Virgin Islands (BVI)—the BVI having requested ongoing support from the OECS in view of an Order in Council in reserve imposed by the UK that, should it be triggered, would suspend the territory’s Constitution and cause a return to direct rule by the UK; and endorsed a recent resolution of the UN General Assembly that reaffirmed the BVI’s right to self-determination</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the 74th meeting of the Authority was held in Feb. 2024</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grena­dines; assoc. mems: Anguilla, British Virgin Islands, Guadeloupe, Martinique</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <title>Dr</title>
                                        <forename>Didacus</forename>
                                        <surname>Jules</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Saint Lucia</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="OTHER.IO.CASEE.109" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="casee">
                         <data-protection date-added="09.11.2009" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Organization of Islamic Cooperation</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>OIC</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>POB 178, Jeddah 21411, Saudia Arabia</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 651-5222</telephone>
                              <fax>(2) 651-2288</fax>
                              <internet>www.oic-oci.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>Sept. 1969 at first conf. of Muslim heads of state convened at Rabat, Morocco, as the Organization of the Islamic Conference (present name adopted in 2011); the first conf. of Muslim foreign ministers, held in Jeddah in March 1970, established the General Secretariat; the latter became operational in May 1971</found-date>
                         <stats>mems: 57 countries, incl. Albania; 5 int. orgs and 5 countries, incl. Bosnia and Herzegovina, have been granted observer status (the OIC maintains a Contact Group on Bosnia and Herzegovina and a Trust Fund for the Return of the Displaced Persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina)</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Hissein Ibrahim</forename>
                                        <surname>Taha</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Chad</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="OTHER.IO.SACAC.OIC.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="sacac">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Organization of Islamic Cooperation</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>OIC</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>POB 178, Jeddah 21411, Saudia Arabia</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 651-5222</telephone>
                              <fax>(2) 651-2288</fax>
                              <internet>www.oic-oci.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>Sept. 1969 at first conf. of Muslim heads of state convened at Rabat, Morocco, as the Organization of the Islamic Conference (present name adopted in 2011); the first conf. of Muslim foreign ministers, held in Jeddah in March 1970, established the General Secretariat; the latter became operational in May 1971</found-date>
                         <stats>mems: 57 countries, incl. Guyana and Suriname</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Hissein Brahim</forename>
                                        <surname>Taha</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Chad</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="OTHER.GOV.IO.38" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="mena eerca ewyb edio">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Organization of Turkic States (OTS)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Binbirdirek, Piyer Loti Cad. No. 2, 34122 Fatih, İstanbul, Türkiye</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(212) 2831644</telephone>
                              <fax>(212) 2831686</fax>
                              <email>info@turkicstates.org</email>
                              <internet>www.turkicstates.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2009, as the Cooperation Council of Turkic Speaking States (more commonly referred to as the Turkic Council; present name adopted in Nov. 2021)</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to promote stability and co-operation within Central Asia and the Caucasus</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">an extraordinary summit meeting was held in a virtual format in April 2020 to address the COVID-19 pandemic</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">condemned as illegitimate elections that were held in March-April in the territory of Nagornyi Karabakh (disputed by Azerbaijan and Armenia); in Sept., in response to an outbreak of conflict between Armenian and Azerbaijani forces in Nagornyi Karabakh, urged the immediate and full withdrawal of all Armenian forces from the territory</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">an informal summit was held in a virtual format in March 2021; at the 8th summit meeting, held in Nov., in İstanbul, heads of state adopted a new name for the grouping and determined to formulate a new strategic roadmap to strengthen co-operation during the period 2022-26</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the 9th summit was convened in Nov. 2022, in Samarkand, Uzbekistan</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL"> an extraordinary summit was held in March 2023, in Ankara, with a focus on emergency disaster management and humanitarian assistance, following the massive earthquake that had devastated parts of southern Türkiye and northern Syrian Arab Rep. in the previous month</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in May dispatched an election observation mission to monitor the presidential election in Türkiye</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">condemned as a severe breach of both Azerbaijani and international law the presidential election organized in early Sept. in Nagornyi Karabakh</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">on 20 Sept.—Azerbaijan having launched a major military offensive (framed as an anti-terrorist operation) aimed at disarming and forcing the removal of Armenian troops in Nagornyi Karabakh (the Armenian authorities denied deploying its military there)—the OTS Sec.-Gen. stated deep concern over Armenian provocations against Azerbaijan’s territorial integrity and sovereignty; a ceasefire was declared on that day, Azerbaijan having claimed a `complete surrender’ by Armenian combatants</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">participated in March 2024 in the 3rd edition of the Antalya Diplomacy Forum, convened by Türkiye’s Pres. Erdoğan</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">affiliated to Parliamentary Assembly of Turkic States (TURKPA), International Org. of Turkic Culture (TURKSOY), Turkic Academy, Turkic Culture and Heritage Foundation and Turkic Business Council</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Türkiye, Uzbekistan; observers: Hungary, Turkmenistan, Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Kubanychbek</forename>
                                        <surname>Omuraliev</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Kyrgyzstan</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="OTHER.GOV.IO.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Paris Peace Forum</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <internet>parispeaceforum.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2018</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to promote multilateral co-operation and dialogue on global security, justice and governance</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">inaugural, annual meeting was held in Nov., in Paris, France, on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the First World War armistice, attended by heads of state and of govt of some 65 countries, as well as representatives of international orgs, local govts, the private sector and civil society groupings</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the 3rd edition, held as a digital event, in Nov. 2020, incorporated a new Finance in Common Summit, with participation by some 430 public devt banks</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">6th edition: Nov. 2023</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">headed by an Executive Cttee, comprising 6 representatives of the founding independent Foundations and the French Ministry for Europe and Foreign Affairs, and advised by a Steering Cttee, comprising 16 high-level experts</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a Selection Cttee evaluates applications for governance projects to support and promote; 10 scale up `global governance solution’ are supported</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Ángel</forename>
                                        <surname>Gurría</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Mexico</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Dir-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Justin</forename>
                                        <surname>Vaïsse</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>France</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="OTHER.GOVTANDPOLS.278" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio mena eerca">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Parliamentary Assembly of Turkic States</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>TURKPA</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <email> info@turk-pa.org</email>
                              <internet>turk-pa.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2008</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to promote political dialogue, as well as co-operation with regard to socioeconomic, cultural, humanitarian, legal, and other issues of mutual interest</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">upholds the principles of parliamentary democracy</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">12th plenary session held in Ankara, Türkiye, in April 2023</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Türkiye</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Chair.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Numan</forename>
                                        <surname>Kurtulmuş</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Türkiye</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Mehmet</forename>
                                        <surname>Süreyya Er</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Türkiye</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="OTHER.GOVTANDPOLS.55" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio mena fea">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Parliamentary Union of the OIC Member States</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>PUIC</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>34 Pesyan St, Zaferanieh, Tehran 1986833553, Iran</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(21) 22418860</telephone>
                              <fax>(21) 22418858</fax>
                              <email>g.s@puic.org</email>
                              <internet>www.puic.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1999</found-date>
                         <stats>mems: 53 parliaments</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Mouhamed Khouraichi</forename>
                                        <surname>Niasse</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Senegal</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="OTHER.GOVTANDPOLS.279" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio sacac ass">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Partnership for Atlantic Cooperation</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <internet>www.state.gov/atlantic-cooperation</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2023 as an initiative of the USA</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">launched in Sept. of that year, on the sidelines of the 78th UN General Assembly, in New York, USA, at which time a Declaration on Atlantic Cooperation was issued and a plan of action adopted</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to pursue co-operation in the areas of sustainable devt, environmental protection, and science and technology</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 32 Atlantic coastal states from Africa, the Americas and Europe</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <!--littoral-->
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.42" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="casee">
                         <!--GS 13.07.2017 No new issues of both the publications-->
                         <!--GS 28.02.2017 Both publs could not be confirmed-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Party of European Socialists (PES)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>10 rue Guimard, 1040 Brussels, Belgium</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 548-90-80</telephone>
                              <email>info@pes.eu</email>
                              <internet>www.pes.eu</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1992 to replace the Confederation of the Socialist Parties of the EC (f. 1974)</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">affiliated to Socialist International</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 5 parties, 5 assoc. parties and 9 observer parties</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Sergei</forename>
                                        <surname>Stanishev</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Bulgaria</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Achim</forename>
                                        <surname>Post</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Germany</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="GOVTPOL.IO.1706" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio fea">
                         <!--VK 18.03.2019 only role group verified-->
                         <!--GS 21.09.2017 Ditto-->
                         <!--GS30.09.2016 Ditto-->
                         <!--GS 29.03.2016 Address details could not be confirmed-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Polynesian Leaders Group (PLG)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>c/o Govt of Samoa, POB L 1861, Apia, Samoa</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">24799</telephone>
                              <fax>26322</fax>
                              <email>presssecretariat@samoa.ws</email>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2011 to represent the collective interests of the Polynesian islands</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">8th formal meeting (PLG8), convened in Funafuti, Tuvalu, in June 2018; issued the Amatuku Declaration on Climate Change and Oceans, which expressed concern over the threats posed by climate change to small island developing states and territories, incl. in relation to rises in sea levels, marine ecosystem impacts, and extreme weather events; 3 new mems—Hawaii, New Zealand and Isla de Pascua (also known as Rapa Nui or Easter Island)—were admitted at that time</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">PLG10 was held in a virtual format in Jan. 2021</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: American Samoa, Cook Islands, French Polynesia, Hawaii (USA), Isla de Pascua (Chile), New Zealand, Niue, Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga, Tuvalu, Wallis and Futuna</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO.GOVT.SACAC.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio sacac">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Prosur</org-entry-name>
                              <alt-name>Foro para el Progreso de América del Sur</alt-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <email>info@foroprosur.org</email>
                              <internet>foroprosur.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2019</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            in Jan. Pres. Iván Duque of Colombia and Pres. Sebastián Piñera of Chile announced their intention to establish Prosur as a successor to 
            <xr pageref="N" ref="IO.GOVTANDPOLS.1">UNASUR</xr>
                         </content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a formal declaration establishing the org., the Presidential Declaration on the Renewal and Strengthening of the Integration of South America, was signed by Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Guyana, Paraguay and Peru, at an inaugural summit, held in Santiago, Chile, in March</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the 3rd formal Presidential Summit was convened in Cartagena, Colombia, in Jan. 2022</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">Suriname formally joined the grouping in the following month; in April, however, the new Chilean administration of Pres. Boric announced it was suspending its membership</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-CASEE.GOVTANDPOLS.100" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio sasia fea">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Quadrilateral Security Dialogue </org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>Quad</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <found-date>2007, relaunched in Nov. 2017</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">an informal framework for bilateral, trilateral and quadrilateral strategic co-operation on security matters</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the inaugural meeting of Quad leaders, held in a virtual format in mid-March 2021, established a working group with a focus on maintaining climate action aligned with the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change; determined to advance low emissions technology; and initiated a partnership focused on enhancing national capacities with a view to providing collectively 1,000m. COVID-19 vaccines to low-income Indo-Pacific countries and territories; the leaders also urged reforms to enhance the efficiency and transparency of WHO</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">these commitments were reaffirmed at the first in-person meeting of the four leaders, held in Sept., in Washington, DC, USA</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a leaders’ summit held in Tokyo, Japan, in May 2022, focused on promoting peace and devt in the Pacific Islands</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a Quad summit meeting that was to have been hosted by Australia in May 2023 was cancelled (as the US Pres. was unable to attend); the Quad leaders met instead on the sidelines of the 49th G7 leaders’ summit, held in that month in Hiroshima, Japan</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a Quad summit was to be hosted by India during 2024</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: Australia, India, Japan, USA</stats>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-CASEE.GOVTANDPOLS.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Regional Co-operation Council</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>71000 Sarajevo, Trg Bosne i Hercegovine 1/V, Bosnia and Herzegovina</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(33) 561700</telephone>
                              <fax>(33) 561701</fax>
                              <email>rcc@rcc.int</email>
                              <internet>www.rcc.int</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2008, as successor to the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">serves as a focus for co-operation in the Western Balkans; its 6 priority areas of activity cover economic and social devt, energy and infrastructure, justice and home affairs, security co-operation, and building human capital, with parliamentary co-operation as an overarching theme</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">maintains a Liaison Office in Brussels, Belgium</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 46 countries and orgs</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Majlinda</forename>
                                        <surname>Bregu</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Albania</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="GOVT.IO.44" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="sacac">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>RUNASUR</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in April 2021 the inaugural meeting took place of a technical team which was to establish RUNASUR, envisaged as a platform for South American indigenous peoples, workers and social movements; the initiative arose from a Meeting of the Peoples and Organizations of Abya Yala towards the Construction of a Plurinational America, which had been convened, at the instigation of fmr Bolivian Pres. Evo Morales, in San Benito, Cochabamba, Bolivia</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the grouping was formally launched at a meeting held in Buenos Aires, Argentina, in Nov. 2022</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.44" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio fea eerca sasia mena">
                         <!--GS 30.09.2016 Website not working-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>7 Ritan Rd, Chaoyang District, Beijing, People's Republic of China</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(10) 65329807</telephone>
                              <fax>(10) 65329808</fax>
                              <email>sco@sectsco.org</email>
                              <internet>sectsco.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>June 2001, replacing the Shanghai Five (f. 1996 to address border disputes)</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to achieve security through mutual co-operation; promotes economic co-operation and measures to eliminate terrorism and drug trafficking</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a Convention on the Fight against Terrorism, Separatism and Extremism was signed in June 2002</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">Treaty on Long-term Good Neighbourliness, Friendship and Co-operation was signed in Aug. 2007</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">holds annual summit meeting and regular sectoral ministerial meetings</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">maintains an SCO anti-terrorism centre in Tashkent, Uzbekistan</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">adopted in July 2017 the SCO Development Strategy until 2025—focused on advancing regional co-operation in areas incl. regional security; energy; transport and infrastructure; agriculture; finance; innovation; environment; information and communication technology; education; and culture</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">reconvened in Oct. 2017 (after a 7-year hiatus) its Afghanistan Contact Group</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in July 2021 SCO mins responsible for foreign affairs convened an emergency summit to address the deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">an SCO Interbank Asscn, comprising banks in mem. states, was established in 2005 as a means of financing regional investment projects; in mid-2018 the Chinese Pres. announced the initiation by China through the Bank of a new US&#8201;$4,700m. loan programme</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in March 2023 monitored parliamentary elections held in Turkmenistan, and in Feb. 2024 dispatched an observer mission to monitor parliamentary and local elections in Belarus</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">India hosted the 2023 summit meeting, held in a virtual format in July, at which Iran was admitted as the 9th mem. of the grouping</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">AlmatI (Kazakhstan) was celebrated as the SCO Cultural and Tourism Capital during 2023-24</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: People's Rep. of China, India, Iran, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Russian Fed., Tajikistan, Uzbekistan; observers: Afghanistan, Belarus, Mongolia; dialogue partners: Azerbaijan, Armenia, Cambodia, Egypt, Kuwait, Nepal, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Türkiye, UAE</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Zhang</forename>
                                        <surname>Ming</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>People’s Republic of China</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.45" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Socialist International</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>POB 67973, London, SW4 4DU, United Kingdom</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>secretariat@socialistinternational.org</email>
                              <internet>www.socialistinternational.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1864</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">re-established in 1951</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the world's oldest and largest asscn of political parties, grouping democratic socialist, labour and social demo­cratic parties from every continent</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">provides a forum for political action, policy discussion and the ex­change of ideas</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            works with many international orgs and trades unions (particularly mems of the 
            <xr pageref="N" ref="ITUC.IO">ITUC</xr>
            )
          </content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">established a Commission for a Sustainable World Society in Nov. 2006</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">holds Congress normally every 3-4 years (26th Congress: Madrid, Spain, in Nov. 2022); the Council meets twice a year, and regular confs and meetings of party leaders are also held</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">cttees and councils on a variety of subjects and in different regions meet frequently</content-note>
                         <stats>
            full mems: 87 nat. parties worldwide, 9 observer parties, 18 consultative parties, 3 fraternal orgs (the International Falcon Movement/Socialist Educational International, International Union of Socialist Youth, and Socialist International Women), and 11 assoc. orgs, incl. the Arab Social Democratic Forum, Party of European Socialists (PES), the Group of the PES at the European Parliament, the 
            
            International Federation of the Socialist and Democratic Press, and the Social Democratic Group of the Latin American Parliament
          </stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Pedro</forename>
                                        <surname>Sánchez</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Spain</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Benedicta</forename>
                                        <surname>Lasi</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Ghana</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publ. 
            <publ-name>Socialist Affairs</publ-name>
             (quarterly)
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO-GOV.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee">
                         <data-protection date-added="23.07.2009" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Signalistgatan 9, 169 72 Solna, Sweden</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(8) 655-97-00</telephone>
                              <email>sipri@sipri.org</email>
                              <internet>www.sipri.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1966</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">researches regional and global security, armed conflict and conflict management, military spending, armaments, arms control, disarmament and non-proliferation; provides data, analysis and recommendations to policymakers, researchers, the media and the interested public; maintains a number of databases on international arms transfers, military expenditure, multilateral peace operations and international arms embargoes</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">organizes an annual Stockholm Forum on Peace and Development and a Stockholm Security Conference (2024: in May)</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Chair.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Stefan</forename>
                                        <surname>Löfven</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Sweden</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Dir</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Dan</forename>
                                        <surname>Smith</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>UK</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publs 
            <publ-name>SIPRI Yearbook</publ-name>
            , mono­graphs and research reports
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.49" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                         <data-protection date-added="23.03.2004" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Transparency International</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Alt Moabit 96, 10559 Berlin, Germany</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(30) 3438200</telephone>
                              <fax>(30) 34703912</fax>
                              <email>ti@transparency.org</email>
                              <internet>www.transparency.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1993</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to promote governmental adoption of anti-corruption practices and accountability at all levels of the public sector</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">works to ensure that international business transactions are conducted with integrity and without resort to corrupt practices</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">conducts research and raises awareness of the extent and damaging effects of corruption</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">holds International Anti-Corruption Conference every 2 years (2024: Vilnius, Lithuania, in June)</content-note>
                         <stats>more than 100 chapters worldwide</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Chair.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Delia</forename>
                                        <surname>Ferreira Rubio</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Argentina</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>CEO</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Daniel</forename>
                                        <surname>Eriksson</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Sweden</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publs 
            <publ-name>Corruption Perceptions Index</publ-name>
            , 
            <publ-name>Global Corruption Barometer</publ-name>
            , 
            <publ-name>Transparency in Corporate Reporting</publ-name>
                         </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.50" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Trilateral Commission</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>c/o 1875 K St, NW, Washington, DC 20005, USA</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(202) 467-5410</telephone>
                              <fax>(202) 467-5415</fax>
                              <internet>www.trilateral.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1973</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">seeks to improve public understanding of contemporary strategic concerns, to develop and support proposals for handling them jtly, and to foster co-operation in the `trilateral' area (i.e. Western Europe, Japan, North America)</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">issues reports on such subjects as monetary affairs, political co-operation, trade issues, the energy crisis and reform of international institutions</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in 2021 convened a Task Force on Global Capitalism in Transition</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">maintains offices in Paris and Tokyo</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 375 individuals eminent in academic life, industry, finance, labour, etc., selected by each regional group</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Chair.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Takeshi</forename>
                                        <surname>Niinami</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Japan</person-note>
                              </person>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Meghan </forename>
                                        <surname>O'Sullivan</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>USA</person-note>
                              </person>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Axel A.</forename>
                                        <surname>Weber</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Germany</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publs 
            <publ-name>Task Force Reports</publ-name>
            , 
            <publ-name>Triangle Papers</publ-name>
                         </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="OTHER.IO.9.TRILATERALCOOP.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio fea">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Trilateral Cooperation Secretariat</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>S-Tower, 20th Floor, 82 Saemunan-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul, 03185 Republic of Korea</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">82-2-733-4700</telephone>
                              <email>tcs@tcs-asia.org</email>
                              <internet>www.tcs-asia.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2011</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to promote collective peace and prosperity for the People’s Rep. of China, Japan and Rep. of Korea</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">has divisions covering political, sociocultural and economic affairs, and management and co-ordination</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Ou</forename>
                                        <surname>Boqian</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>People’s Republic of China</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="GOVTPOL.IO.1248" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee mena">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Union for the Mediterranean (UfM) Secretariat</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Palacio de Pedralbes, Pere Duran Farell 11, 08034 Barcelona, Spain</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(93) 5214147</telephone>
                              <fax>(93) 5214119</fax>
                              <email>secretary-general@ufmsecretariat.org</email>
                              <internet>www.ufmsecretariat.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2008 as a continuation of the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership (Barcelona Process), which had been launched in 1995</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the statutes of the secretariat were adopted in March 2010</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">its mandate is defined by the July 2008 Paris Declaration of the Euro-Mediterranean summit, and by the subsequent Marseilles Declaration, adopted in Nov. of that year; the UfM was established as a framework for advancing relations (political, economic and social) between the European Union and countries of the Southern and Eastern Mediterranean, in accordance with the goals detailed in the 1995 Barcelona Declaration: i.e. working to create an area of stability and shared economic prosperity, underpinned by full respect for democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Nov. 2020, commemorating 25 years since the launch of the Barcelona Process, UfM ministers (meeting in a virtual format) declared 28 Nov. as the International Day of the Mediterranean, to be observed annually</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 27 European Union states, the European Commission and 15 Mediterranean countries</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Nasser</forename>
                                        <surname>Kamel</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Egypt</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="OTHER.IO.CASEE.82" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="casee">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Union of Baltic Cities (UBC)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>80-853 Gdańsk, Wały Jagiellońskie 1, Poland</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(58) 3010917</telephone>
                              <fax>(58) 3017637</fax>
                              <email>info@ubc.net</email>
                              <internet>www.ubc.net</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1991</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to promote economic and political co-operation in the Baltic Sea region, and European integration</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">comprises the following 7 commissions: Cultural Cities; Inclusive and Healthy Cities; Planning Cities; Safe Cities; Smart and Prospering Cities; Sustainable Cities; Youthful Cities</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">17th General Conf.: Oct. 2023, in Palanga, Lithuania, on the theme `Baltic Sea cities supporting Ukraine’</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 106 cities in 10 countries; 5 associated cities, in Ukraine</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Mantas</forename>
                                        <surname>Jurgutis</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Lithuania</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Paweł</forename>
                                        <surname>Żaboklicki</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Poland</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publ. 
            <publ-name>UBC Bulletin</publ-name>
             (quarterly)
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XE.IO.TXT.75" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Union of International Associations (UIA)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>40 rue Washington, 1050 Brussels, Belgium</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 640-18-08</telephone>
                              <fax>(2) 643-61-99</fax>
                              <email>uia@uia.org</email>
                              <internet>www.uia.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1907, present title adopted in 1910</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">documents and disseminates information on the work of international asscns</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">promotes research , monitoring and provision of information on int. orgs, int. asscns and their global challenges</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Cyril</forename>
                                        <surname>Ritchie</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Switzerland</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Jacques</forename>
                                        <surname>de Mévius</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Belgium</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publs 
            <publ-name>International Congress Calendar</publ-name>
            , 
            <publ-name>Yearbook of International Organizations</publ-name>
            , 
            <publ-name>International Meetings Statistics Report</publ-name>
            , 
            <publ-name>World of Associations News</publ-name>
            , 
            <publ-name>Encyclopedia of World Problems and Human Potential</publ-name>
                         </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO.GOVTANDPOLS.1" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio sacac">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Union of South American Nations (UNASUR)</org-entry-name>
                              <alt-name>Unión de Naciones Suramericanas</alt-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Avda Manuel Córdova Galarza, Mitad del Mundo, Quito, Ecuador</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(2) 3990900</telephone>
                              <email>secretaria.general@unasursg.org</email>
                              <internet>www.unasursg.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>April 2007</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a Constitutive Treaty, signed by 12 heads of state in May 2008, entered into force in March 2011</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in Nov. 2012 UNASUR heads of state adopted the Declaration of Lima, comprising 16 actions aimed at promoting regional integration and the devt of a regional zone of peace</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in April 2014, in response to violent unrest in Venezuela, UNASUR mediated the start of a formal dialogue between representatives of the Venezuelan Govt and opposition elements</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in April 2018 Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Paraguay and Peru suspended participation in meetings of UNASUR, and contributions to its budget, in view of discord within the org, incl. the failure to elect a new Sec.-Gen.; those countries also became increasingly critical of the regime of Venezuela’s Pres. Nicolas Maduro</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            a new org. to promote regional integration, 
            <xr pageref="N" ref="IO.GOVT.SACAC.1">Prosur</xr>
            , was established by the heads of state of 7 UNASUR mems (and by a rep. of Guyana) in March 2019
          </content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">by that time Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Paraguay and Peru had all announced their departure from UNASUR</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the withdrawal of Bolivia was announced in Nov., while Uruguay announced its withdrawal from the org. in March 2020</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL"> in Nov. 2020, following the election of Pres. Luis Arce, Bolivia resumed participation in UNASUR, alongside Guyana, Suriname and Venezuela</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in early 2023 the recently elected Pres. of Brazil, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, indicated that Brazil intended to rejoin and revitalize UNASUR; this was formalized in May</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">Argentina rejoined the grouping in early April and at the end of May the Colombian Pres., Gustavo Petro, confirmed that he would ratify a treaty for Colombia to rejoin UNASUR</content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <!--v.23 Petro proposal to rename it Asociaci&#243;n de Naciones Suramericanas.-->
                    <org-entry id="GOVTANDPOLS.IO.5" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                         <!--rc 17.04.2023 cannot confirm mems-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>United Cities and Local Governments (UCLG)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Carrer Avinyó 15, 08002 Barcelona, Spain</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(93) 3428750</telephone>
                              <fax>(93) 3428760</fax>
                              <email>info@uclg.org</email>
                              <internet>www.uclg.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2004 by merger of the Int. Union of Local Authorities and the World Federation of United Cities</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to increase the role and influence of local govts, promotes democratic local governance, and facilitates partnerships and networks among cities and local authorities; its Global Agenda promotes localization as the most effective means of achieving the UN Sustainable Devt Goals</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">launched the Global Observatory on Local Democracy and Decentralisation to provide information on the situation and evolution of self-govt and local govt across the world</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">organizes a World Summit of Local and Regional Leaders</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 140 towns, local and regional govt asscns, more than 1,000 mem. cities and 155 nat. asscns</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Carolina</forename>
                                        <surname>Cosse</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Emilia</forename>
                                        <surname>Saiz Carrancedo</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Spain</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publ. 
            <publ-name>Global Report on Decentralisation and Local Democracy</publ-name>
                         </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.55" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="edio">
                         <!--iv. 2013 - changed from World Disarmament Campaign entry /-AK 4.4.2013... Reply dated Feb 2013 suggests changing this entry and its details to: United for Peace ( www.unitingforpeace.org)-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Uniting for Peace</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>14 Cavell St, London, E1 2HP, United Kingdom</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(20) 7791-1717</telephone>
                              <email>info@unitingforpeace.com</email>
                              <internet>www.unitingforpeace.com</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>2011 to promote peace, security and disarmament, human rights, international law, devt, and poverty reduction</found-date>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Chair.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Vijay</forename>
                                        <surname>Mehta</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>India</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publ. 
            <publ-name>Newsletter</publ-name>
                         </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.51" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio casee eerca">
                         <data-protection date-added="29.04.2008" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organization (UNPO)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>49/51 rue de Trèves, bte 18, 1040 Brussels, Belgium</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <email>unpo@unpo.org</email>
                              <internet>unpo.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1991</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">an international, democratic org. representing Indigenous peoples, minorities, and unrecognized or occupied territories</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to protect and promote their human and cultural rights, preserve their environments, and find non-violent solutions to conflicts that affect them</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">opened an office in Washington, DC, USA, in 2016</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">16th General Assembly held in March 2022, in Washington, DC, USA</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: orgs representing some 44 occupied nations, Indigenous peoples and minorities</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Exec. Dir</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Merce</forename>
                                        <surname>Monje Cano</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publs 
            <publ-name>Newsletter</publ-name>
            , human rights reports
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.52" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                         <!--rc 27.02.2020 the position of chairman has been abolished https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/War_Resisters%27_International-->
                         <data-protection date-added="29.04.2008" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>War Resisters' International</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>5 Caledonian Rd, London, N1 9DX, United Kingdom</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(20) 7278-4040</telephone>
                              <email>info@wri-irg.org</email>
                              <internet>www.wri-irg.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1921</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">encourages refusal to participate in or support wars or military service, collaborates with movements that work for peace and non-violent social change</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">a public conf. `Antimilitarist Roots: nonviolent resistance for a world in crisis’ was held in June 2023, in London</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 90 affiliated gps in 40 countries</stats>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publs 
            <publ-name>The Broken Rifle</publ-name>
             (quarterly), 
            <publ-name>War Profiteers News</publ-name>
             (every 2 months), 
            <publ-name>War Resisters' Stories</publ-name>
                         </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.53.0" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="edio">
                         <!--rc 27.02.2020 no news of any recent activity-->
                         <!--VK 18.03.2019 no info-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>Women's International Democratic Federation (WIDF)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Guimarães Passos 422, Vila Mariana, São Paulo, SP, Brazil, 04107-031</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(11) 2892-3087</telephone>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1945 to unite women regardless of nationality, race, religion or political opinion</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">to enable them to work together to win and defend their rights as citizens, mothers and workers</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">to protect children</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">and to ensure peace and progress, democracy and national independence; structure: Con­gress, Secretariat and Executive Committee</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 660 affiliated orgs in 160 countries</stats>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publs 
            <publ-name>Women of the Whole World</publ-name>
             (6 a year), 
            <publ-name>Newsletter</publ-name>
                         </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.56" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                         <data-protection date-added="15.04.2005" ticked-box="Y" />
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>World Federalist Movement (WFM)</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>708 Third Ave, 24th Floor, New York, NY 10017, USA</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(212) 599-1320</telephone>
                              <fax>(212) 599-1332</fax>
                              <email>pace@wfm-igp.org</email>
                              <internet>www.wfm-igp.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1947 </found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to acquire for the UN the authority to make and enforce laws for the peaceful settlement of disputes, and to raise revenue under limited taxing powers</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">to establish better international co-operation in the areas of environment, devt and disarmament</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">and to promote federalism throughout the world</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">an Institute for Global Policy (IGP) was established in 1983 as the research and policy analysis mechanism of the WFM</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">supports the functioning of the Int. Criminal Court (through the Coalition for the ICC), European integration, and the campaigns to establish a UN Parliamentary Assembly and a Latin American and Caribbean Criminal Court Against Transnational Organized Crime</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">in 2022 reactivated a previous campaign, 1 for 7 Billion, for the UN to adopt a more transparent and inclusive selection process of the next Sec.-Gen.</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">Congress meetings held every 2 years (until 2018 they were convened every 5-6 years)</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Co-Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Tadashi</forename>
                                        <surname>Inuzuka</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Japan</person-note>
                              </person>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Fernando</forename>
                                        <surname>Iglesias</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Argentina</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Exec. Dir</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Amy</forename>
                                        <surname>Oloo</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Kenya</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publs 
            <publ-name>World Federalist News</publ-name>
             (quarterly), 
            <publ-name>International Criminal Court Monitor</publ-name>
             (quarterly)
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <!--~8 Billion-->
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.57" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>World Federation of United Nations Associations (WFUNA)</org-entry-name>
                              <alt-name>Fédération Mondiale des Associations Pour les Nations Unies—FMANU</alt-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>1 United Nations Plaza, Rm 240, New York, NY 10017, USA</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(212) 963-5610</telephone>
                              <email>info@wfuna.org</email>
                              <internet>www.wfuna.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1946</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">established to encourage popular interest and participation in UN activities, discussion of the role and future of the UN, and education for international understanding</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">supports a WFUNA Youth Network</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">organizes monthly dialogues between the (rotating) Pres. of the UN Security Council and civil society orgs</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">Plenary Assembly meets every 3 years (43rd: Tbilisi, Georgia, in Nov. 2023)</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: nat. asscns in more than 100 countries</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Shawn</forename>
                                        <surname>Chen</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Sec.-Gen.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Aziel Philippos</forename>
                                        <surname>Goulandris</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publ. 
            <publ-name>WFUNA News</publ-name>
                         </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="WB0231XD.IO.TXT.58" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="ewyb edio">
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>World Peace Council</org-entry-name>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Othonos 10, Athens 10557, Greece</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(210) 331-6326</telephone>
                              <fax>(210) 325-1576</fax>
                              <email>wpc@otenet.gr</email>
                              <internet>www.wpc-in.org</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1950 at the Second World Peace Congress, Warsaw</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">principles: the prevention of nuclear war</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">the peaceful co-existence of the various socioeconomic systems in the world</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">settlement of differences between nations by negotiation and agreement</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">complete disarmament</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">elimination of colonialism and racial discrimination</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">and respect for the right of peoples to sovereignty and independence</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 96 nat. and int. orgs, groups and individuals, from 11 countries</stats>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">Executive Committee of 40 mems elected by World Assembly held every 4 years</content-note>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Pallab</forename>
                                        <surname>Sengupta</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>India</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Exec. Sec.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Iraklis</forename>
                                        <surname>Tsavdaridis</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Greece</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">
            publ. 
            <publ-name>Peace Messenger</publ-name>
             (monthly)
          </content-note>
                    </org-entry>
                    <org-entry id="IO.WWCAM.37" media="PRINTANDONLINE" print-only="NO" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="ORG-ENTRYREF" usage="edio">
                         <!--GS 30.03.2016 Fax is for city hall and not the organization-->
                         <org-entry-head>
                              <org-entry-name>World Winter Cities Association for Mayors</org-entry-name>
                              <abbr>WWCAM</abbr>
                         </org-entry-head>
                         <address-block>
                              <address type="POSTAL">
                                   <verbatim-address>Kita 1 Nishi 2, Chuo-ku, Sapporo 060-8611, Japan</verbatim-address>
                              </address>
                              <telephone alsofax="N">(11) 211-2111</telephone>
                              <internet>wwcam.org/en</internet>
                         </address-block>
                         <found-date>1981 as the Intercity Conference of Mayors, present name adopted in 2004</found-date>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">aims to promote close co-operation among northern cities and enable the sharing of information on city devt and winter technologies</content-note>
                         <content-note style="NORMAL">holds a biennial Mayors Conference (2021: Rovaniemi, Finland, in Nov.)</content-note>
                         <stats>mems: 23 cities in 9 countries</stats>
                         <role-group>
                              <role>Pres.</role>
                              <person>
                                   <person-name>
                                        <forename>Katsuhiro</forename>
                                        <surname>Akimoto</surname>
                                   </person-name>
                                   <person-note>Japan</person-note>
                              </person>
                         </role-group>
                    </org-entry>
               </org-list>
          </int-org-section>
     </int-org-sectref>
     