<?xml version="1.0"?>
<country-survey id="EE.CHRON" id-root="ee" iso="ee" original-filename="estchro.rtf" print-style="PGWIDTH" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <heading>Chronology</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="casee">Estonia</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="casee">Chronology</alt-heading>
     <chron-list>
          <chron-entry date="-3000-01-01">
               <chron-head>
                    <i>c.</i>
         3000 
        <sc>bce</sc>
               </chron-head>
               <chron-text>Finno-Ugric peoples, the ancestors of the Esto­nians, first began to migrate from eastern Europe to the north-east coast of the Baltic Sea.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1219-01-01" to-date="1219-12-31">
               <chron-head>
         1219 
        <sc>ce</sc>
               </chron-head>
               <chron-text>Valdemar II of Denmark and the German Sword Brethren, a crusading order, conquered Estonia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1346-01-01" to-date="1346-12-31">
               <chron-head>1346</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Danes sold their share of Estonian territory to the Livonian Order of Teutonic Knights.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1524-01-01" to-date="1539-12-31">
               <chron-head>1524-39</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The State of Teutonic Knights converted to Lutheranism.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1561-01-01" to-date="1561-12-31">
               <chron-head>1561</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Estonia (now northern Estonia) became part of Sweden. Livonia (now Latvia and southern Estonia) became part of the Lithuanian-Polish Duchy of Courland (Kurland).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1595-01-01" to-date="1595-12-31">
               <chron-head>1595</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Sweden’s right to Narva and Estonia was recognized by the Peace of Teusin, signed by Sweden and the Tsardom of Russia, although Sweden did not assume full control of Estonia until 1607.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1629-01-01" to-date="1629-12-31">
               <chron-head>1629</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Sweden gained the territory of Livonia by the Armistice of Altmark, after the Swedish-Polish Wars.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1721-01-01" to-date="1721-12-31">
               <chron-head>1721</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Treaty of Nystad, between Russia and Sweden, ended the Great Northern War and brought Estonia and Livonia under Russian rule.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1905-11-01" to-date="1905-11-30">
               <chron-head>November 1905</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Estonian nationalist feeling re­sulted in an abortive demand for autonomy by the all-Estonian Assembly.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1914-08-01">
               <chron-head>1 August 1914</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Russia entered the First World War against the Central Powers of Austria-Hungary, Germany and the Ottomans.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1917-04-12">
               <chron-head>30 March (12 April) 1917</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The new Provisional Government of Russia granted Estonia autonomy.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1918-02-24">
               <chron-head>24 February (Old Style 11 February) 1918</chron-head>
               <chron-text>An independent Republic of Estonia was declared; Konstantin Päts led a Provisional Government, although Germany, which had dispatched troops to occupy Estonia several days earlier, did not recognize it.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1918-03-03">
               <chron-head>3 March 1918</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Bolsheviks, in control of the Government of Russia, signed the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk with Germany, ceding Estonia and other territories to Germany.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1918-11-01" to-date="1918-11-30">
               <chron-head>November 1918</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following Germany’s surrender, the Provisional Government assumed control in Estonia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1920-02-02">
               <chron-head>2 February 1920</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Treaty of Tartu (Dorpat) ended hostil­ities between Estonia and Soviet Russia; the Soviet Government recognized Estonian independence and renounced its territorial claims. In August a parliamentary Constitution was introduced.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1921-01-01" to-date="1921-12-31">
               <chron-head>1921</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Estonia was recognized as an independent state and subsequently admitted to the League of Nations.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1924-01-01" to-date="1924-12-31">
               <chron-head>1924</chron-head>
               <chron-text>An attempt by communists to seize power in Estonia failed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1933-01-01" to-date="1933-12-31">
               <chron-head>1933</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The increasing influence of the right-wing Eesti Vabadussõjalaste Keskliit (War of Inde­pendence Veterans’ League) forced the introduction of a constitutional system with an executive presidency.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1934-03-12">
               <chron-head>12 March 1934</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Päts seized control in a bloodless coup to lead a dictatorship.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1938-04-01" to-date="1938-04-30">
               <chron-head>April 1938</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following the adoption of a new presidential Constitution, Päts was elected President.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1939-08-23">
               <chron-head>23 August 1939</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Treaty of Non-Aggression (the Nazi-Soviet or Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact) was concluded by Germany and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR); the Secret Protocols’ to this Pact described Estonia, Latvia and part of Poland as within the Soviet sphere of influence’.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1940-06-01" to-date="1940-06-30">
               <chron-head>June 1940</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The USSR occupied the Baltic states (Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania) and Bessarabia. A Soviet-appointed administration assumed office in Estonia, led by Johannes Vares-Barbarus.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1940-07-21">
               <chron-head>21 July 1940</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The new Estonian parliament proclaimed the Estonian Soviet Socialist Republic.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1940-08-06">
               <chron-head>6 August 1940</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Estonia was admitted to the USSR.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1941-06-01" to-date="1941-06-30">
               <chron-head>June 1941</chron-head>
               <chron-text>More than 10,000 Estonians were deported to Siberia by the Soviet authorities.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1941-07-01" to-date="1941-07-31">
               <chron-head>July 1941</chron-head>
               <chron-text>German forces entered Estonia as part of their invasion of the USSR.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1944-09-01" to-date="1944-09-30">
               <chron-head>September 1944</chron-head>
               <chron-text>
        After expelling all German troops from Estonia, the Soviet regime endured a series of armed attacks by the forest brethren’ (
        <i>metsavennad</i>
        ), a pro-inde­pendence guerrilla movement, which continued its campaign until 1955.
      </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1947-01-01" to-date="1949-03-31">
               <chron-head>1947-March 1949</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Collectivization, and continuing mass deportations, occurred in Estonia; deportations continued until the death of the Soviet leader, Stalin (Iosif Dzhugashvili), in 1953.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1980-10-01" to-date="1980-10-31">
               <chron-head>October 1980</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The brutal suppression of a protest by schoolchildren against the russification’ of Estonia prompted a critical letter from prominent intellectuals to the authorities.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1987-08-23">
               <chron-head>23 August 1987</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A crowd of 2,000 protesters marked the anniversary of the Nazi-Soviet Pact. Soon afterwards, an Estonian Group demanding the publication of the Pact was established; this became the Eesti Rahvusliku Sõltumatuse Partei (ERSP—Estonian National Independence Party).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1988-04-13">
               <chron-head>13 April 1988</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Rahvarinne (Estonian Popular Front) was formed; it organized mass demonstrations against Soviet rule in July-August. A new First Secretary of the ruling republican Communist Party was appointed in June.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1988-11-16">
               <chron-head>16 November 1988</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Estonian Supreme Soviet (Supreme Council) declared the sovereignty of the Republic. The USSR’s Supreme Court ruled this to be unconstitutional, but the Estonian Supreme Soviet affirmed the declaration in December.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1989-01-18">
               <chron-head>18 January 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Estonian was adopted as the state language and the Estonian tricolour was reinstated as the official flag.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1989-03-01" to-date="1989-03-31">
               <chron-head>March 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In elections to the all-Union Congress of People’s Deputies, the Rahvarinne won 27 of the 36 Estonian seats, while Intermovement, a political group sympathetic to Russian interests formed the previous year, won five. The ERSP refused to participate in the elections and proposed a rival parliament, the Congress of Estonia’, in which only citizens of pre-1940 Estonia and their descendants would be entitled to vote.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1989-05-01" to-date="1989-05-31">
               <chron-head>May 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Estonia declared its economic independence from the all-Union authorities; this Supreme Soviet of the USSR ratified this decision in November.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1989-11-01" to-date="1989-11-30">
               <chron-head>November 1989</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Estonian Supreme Soviet voted to annul the 1940 decision to join the USSR.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1990-02-22">
               <chron-head>22 February 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Estonian legislature approved a declaration demanding immediate negotiations with the all-Union Supreme Soviet on the restoration of independence.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1990-03-11" to-date="1990-03-12">
               <chron-head>11-12 March 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Congress of Estonia, to which elections had recently been held, convened, declaring itself the constitutional representative of the Estonian people.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1990-03-18">
               <chron-head>18 March 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In elections to the Estonian Supreme Soviet, the Rahvarinne won 43 of the 105 contested seats; other pro-inde­pendence groups obtained 35 seats, with the remainder secured by Intermovement. At the first session of the new legislature, Arnold Rüütel, previously Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet, was elected Chairman. On 30 March the Supreme Soviet declared a transitional period towards independence.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1990-04-03">
               <chron-head>3 April 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Supreme Soviet elected Edgar Savisaar, leader of Rahvarinne, as Prime Minister.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1990-05-08">
               <chron-head>8 May 1990</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The first five articles of the 1938 Constitution were reinstated; the formal name of the Republic of Estonia, and its pre-Soviet emblems, flag and anthem were restored. The following week the Soviet leadership annulled Estonia’s declaration of independence and some 2,000 pro-Soviet protesters attempted to occupy the parliament building.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-03-03">
               <chron-head>3 March 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a referendum, 77.8% of participants (82.9% of the registered electorate) voted in favour of independence.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-03-17">
               <chron-head>17 March 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Of the 225,000 Slavs in north-eastern Estonia who participated in the all-Union referendum on the future of the USSR, approximately 95% voted in favour of keeping the USSR as a renewed federation’.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-08-19">
               <chron-head>19 August 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At the same time as an attempted coup in Moscow (the Russian and Soviet capital), Gen. Fedor Kuzmin, Commander of the Soviet Baltic Military District, declared that he was assuming control of Estonia. Military vehicles entered Tallinn one day later; at a session of the Estonian Supreme Council full and immediate independence was declared. On 21 August Soviet troops occupied the television station in Tallinn but, in Moscow, the coup collapsed, and on the following day the Estonian Government banned the all-Union Communist Party, Intermovement and the United Council of Work Collectives.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-09-06">
               <chron-head>6 September 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The USSR recognized Estonia’s independence. Later in the month Estonia was admitted to the United Nations (UN).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1991-11-06">
               <chron-head>6 November 1991</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new citizenship law granted voting rights only to those who had been citizens of Estonia prior to 1940, and their descendants.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1992-01-30">
               <chron-head>30 January 1992</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Savisaar resigned as Prime Minister. He was replaced by Tiit Vähi.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1992-07-03">
               <chron-head>3 July 1992</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following approval by 91% of the electorate in a referendum held in June, a new Constitution came into force, providing for a 101-member parliament, the Riigikogu (State Assembly), and a presidency with limited powers.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1992-09-20">
               <chron-head>20 September 1992</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In legislative elections the largest number of seats (29) was won by Isamaaliit (the Pro Patria Union).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1992-10-05">
               <chron-head>5 October 1992</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Lennart Meri was elected President by the State Assembly. Meri appointed a coalition Government led by Mart Laar of Isamaaliit.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1993-06-01" to-date="1993-06-30">
               <chron-head>June 1993</chron-head>
               <chron-text>All non-citizens (the majority of whom were ethnic Russians) were required to apply for citizenship or for a residence permit by January 1996 (this was later extended), provoking further tensions with Russia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1994-08-29">
               <chron-head>29 August 1994</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The last former Soviet troops were finally withdrawn from Estonia.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1994-10-27">
               <chron-head>27 October 1994</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Andres Tarand was appointed Prime Minister, following Laar’s resignation amid revelations that he had contravened an agreement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1995-03-05">
               <chron-head>5 March 1995</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In elections to the State Assembly, an alliance of the Eesti Koonderakond (Estonian Coalition Party) and the Eesti Maarahva Erakond (EME—Estonian Rural Union) won 41 seats; a liberal coalition led by the Eesti Reformierakond (ER—Estonian Reform Party) obtained 19, and Eesti Keskerakond (EK—Estonian Centre Party) 16 seats. Six seats were secured by Nash Dom—Estoniya (Our Home is Estonia), an alliance representing Russian-speakers.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1995-03-23">
               <chron-head>31 March 1995</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The newly appointed Prime Minister, Tiit Vähi, leader of Eesti Koonderakond, agreed a coalition with the EME and the EK.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1995-10-10">
               <chron-head>10 October 1995</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Council of Ministers resigned, following the dismissal of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Savisaar, after it emerged that he had secretly recorded polit­ical negotiations.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1995-11-03">
               <chron-head>3 November 1995</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Vähi, who had been reappointed premier, formed a new governing coalition of his Eesti Koonderakond and the EME with the ER.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry from-date="1996-08-26" to-date="1996-08-27">
               <chron-head>26-27 August 1996</chron-head>
               <chron-text>After three rounds of voting in the State Assembly, neither Meri nor Rüütel obtained sufficient votes to be elected to the presidency. A larger electoral college convened, although no candidate in the first round achieved an overall majority; Meri was finally re-elected in September.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1996-11-22">
               <chron-head>22 November 1996</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The six ER ministers resigned, after a co-operation agreement was signed by the Eesti Koonderakond and the EK; this initiated the collapse of the ruling coalition.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1996-12-01">
               <chron-head>1 December 1996</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A minority Government, still headed by Vähi and supported by the Eesti Koonderakond, the EME and independent deputies, was appointed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1997-02-25">
               <chron-head>25 February 1997</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Vähi resigned, following allegations concerning abuse of office. Mart Siimann, the leader of the Eesti Koonderakond, was appointed Prime Minister two days later.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1997-03-14">
               <chron-head>14 March 1997</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The Eesti Koonderakond, the EME and independents formed a new minority Government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1999-03-07">
               <chron-head>7 March 1999</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In elections to the State Assembly, the EK won 28 seats; the ER and Isamaaliit each won 18, a coalition led by the Erakond Mõõdukad (Moderates) obtained 17, followed by the Eesti Maarahva Erakond (Estonian Country People’s Party) with seven, and the Eestimaa Ühendatud Rahvapartei (United People’s Party of Estonia), with six.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="1999-03-25">
               <chron-head>25 March 1999</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The ER, Isamaaliit and the Erakond Mõõdukad formed a coalition Government, led by Laar.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2001-09-21">
               <chron-head>21 September 2001</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Rüütel was elected President by an electoral college, after the State Assembly had failed to elect a candidate in August. He was inaugurated on 8 October.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2002-01-22">
               <chron-head>22 January 2002</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following the resignation of Laar’s Government on 8 January, Siim Kallas, the Chairman of the ER, was approved to head a new coalition Government, comprising the ER and the EK.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2003-03-02">
               <chron-head>2 March 2003</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In legislative elections, the EK and the Ühendus Vabariigi eest `Res Publica’ (Union for the Republic `Res Publica’—Res Publica) each won 28 seats, both parties having received around 25% of the vote.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2003-04-09">
               <chron-head>9 April 2003</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Juhan Parts, the leader of Res Publica, was nominated to head a new administration. His coalition Government, in which the ER and the Eestimaa Rahvaliit (Estonian People’s Union—formerly the EME) were also represented, was approved one week later.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2003-09-14">
               <chron-head>14 September 2003</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In a national referendum on the country’s proposed admission to the European Union (EU), 66.8% of votes were cast in favour of accession. The rate of voter participation was 64.1%. Estonia joined the EU on 1 May 2004, and took part in elections to the European Parliament in June.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2004-03-29">
               <chron-head>29 March 2004</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Estonia became a full member of NATO.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2005-03-24">
               <chron-head>24 March 2005</chron-head>
               <chron-text>After the State Assembly had adopted a motion of no confidence in Minister of Justice Ken-Marti Vaher, Parts’ Government resigned. On 31 March a new coalition agreement was reached between the EK, the ER and the Eestimaa Rahvaliit; Andrus Ansip, Chairman of the ER, was nominated to lead a new government, which was sworn in on 13 April.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2006-09-23">
               <chron-head>23 September 2006</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A former Minister of Foreign Affairs, Toomas Hendrik Ilves of the SDE, narrowly defeated Rüütel in an electoral college vote to become President; he was inaugurated on 9 October.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2007-03-04">
               <chron-head>4 March 2007</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Elections to the State Assembly were the first in the world in which registered voters were able to vote online in a national poll. The ER obtained 31 seats, the EK 29, the Isamaa ja Res Publica Liit (IRL—the Union of Pro Patria and Res Publica—formed in June 2006 through the merger of Res Publica and Isamaaliit) 19, and the SDE 10.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry date="2007-04-04">
               <chron-head>4 April 2007</chron-head>
               <chron-text>After the ER, the IRL and the SDE formed a new centre-right coalition, a new Government, led by Ansip, was installed.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>22 May 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following a dispute over the proposed introduction of higher tax rates, Ansip dismissed the three SDE ministers from the Government, and announced that he was to lead a minority administration.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>7 June 2009</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In elections to the European Parliament, the EK obtained two of Estonia’s six seats. The ER, the IRL, the SDE and an independent candidate each obtained one seat. The rate of voter participation, at 43.9%, was markedly higher than in 2004.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 May 2010</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ilves became the first Estonian President to attend the annual Victory Day parade (commemorating the end of the Second World War) in Moscow.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>1 January 2011</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Estonia adopted the euro as its currency.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>6 March 2011</chron-head>
               <chron-text>At elections to the State Assembly, the ER received 33 seats, the EK 26 seats, the IRL 23 and the SDE 19.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 April 2011</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Government, again formed by a coalition of the ER and the IRL, assumed office. Many senior positions remained unchanged.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>29 August 2011</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ilves was elected to a second term of office as President by the State Assembly, defeating Indrek Tarand. Ilves was inaugurated on 10 October.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>18 February 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A border treaty was signed by the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of Estonia and Russia in Moscow. (Russia had withdrawn from an earlier border treaty signed in 2005.) However, neither country ratified it.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>4 March 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ansip tendered his resignation as Prime Minister. Later in the month, President Ilves nominated Taavi Rõivas of the ER as his successor.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>24 March 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The State Assembly voted to confirm Rõivas as Prime Minister; a coalition administration comprising the ER and the SDE took office two days later.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>25 May 2014</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In elections to the European Parliament, the ER won two seats. The EK, the IRL and the SDE each won one seat, and one independent candidate was elected; 36.4% of the electorate participated.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>1 March 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Elections to the State Assembly took place. The ER remained the largest party, with 27.7% of the votes and 30 seats, ahead of the EK, with 24.8% and 27 seats. The SDE received 15.2% of the votes and 15 seats, the IRL 13.7% and 14 seats, the newly established, centre-right Eesti Vabaerakond (Estonian Free Party) 8.7% and eight seats, and the Eesti Konservatiivne Rahvaerakond (EKRE—Estonian Conservative People’s Party) 8.1% and seven seats. The rate of participation was 64.2%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>8 April 2015</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The State Assembly approved a new coalition Government, again headed by Rõivas, comprising seven representatives from the ER and four from each of the SDE and the IRL. Several posts remained unchanged from the previous administration.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 September 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following several inconclusive rounds of presidential voting in the State Assembly in August, Marina Kaljurand resigned as Minister of Foreign Affairs to contest the presidency; she was succeeded by Jürgen Ligi. However, an electoral college, which convened on 24 September, also failed to elect a president. On 3 October the State Assembly elected Kersti Kaljulaid, a former judge at the European Court of Auditors, as President.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 November 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Rõivas announced the resignation of his Government, following a parliamentary vote of no confidence in which the SDE and the IRL had withdrawn support.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>23 November 2016</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new coalition Government, led by Jüri Ratas, the new Chairman of the EK, was sworn in; the EK, the SDE and the IRL each received five portfolios. Sven Mikser of the SDE became Minister of Foreign Affairs, while IRL leader Margus Tsahkna became Minister of Defence. Andres Anvelt of the SDE was appointed Minister of the Interior.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>12 June 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A government reorganization was implemented. The three ministers from the IRL were replaced with new appointees from the party; notably, Toomas Tõniste succeeded Sven Sester as Minister of Finance, while Jüri Luik replaced Tsahkna as Minister of Defence.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>15 October 2017</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Municipal elections took place, marking the end of a period of administrative reform, which had resulted in a reduction in the number of municipalities from 213 to 79. The leading parties were the EK (which attracted particular support from among the ethnic Russian population), with 27.3% of the votes and 297 seats, the ER (19.5% and 291 seats) and the SDE (10.4% and 151 seats).</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 November 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Andres Anvelt resigned as Minister of the Interior.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>18 December 2018</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following a criminal investigation into alleged money laundering at the Estonian branch of the Danish Danske Bank, 10 former employees were arrested (and international investigations, including by the USA, continued). An internal investigation had indicated that some €200,000m. from non-resident accounts principally held by entities or individuals in Russia and other former Soviet states had passed through the branch in 2007-15, with many transactions regarded as suspicious. In February 2019 the Government ordered that the branch be closed by the end of the year.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>3 March 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following legislative elections, the ER emerged as the first-placed party, with 28.9% of the votes cast and 34 seats (an increase of four seats compared with 2015), while the governing EK secured 23.1% of the votes and 26 seats; support for the anti-immigration EKRE strengthened, and it won 17.8% and 19 seats (compared with seven seats in 2015), surpassing support for the Isamaa Erakond (Isamaa—Pro Patria Party—as the IRL had been renamed in June 2018), with 11.4% and 12 seats, and the SDE, with 9.8% and 10 seats. The official rate of participation by the electorate was 63.7%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>17 April 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>After ER leader Kaja Kallas (daughter of former Prime Minister Siim Kallas) failed to secure sufficient parliamentary support to become premier, a new coalition Government, led by Ratas and comprising members of the EK, Isamaa and the EKRE, was approved by the legislature. Notably, Urmas Reinsalu of the Isamaa took the position of Minister of Foreign Affairs, EKRE leader Mart Helme was appointed Minister of the Interior and his son, Martin Helme, became Minister of Finance.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>26 May 2019</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Some 37.6% of the Estonian electorate participated in elections to the European Parliament. The ER was again the leading party, with 26.2% of the votes and two seats; the SDE received 23.3% and two seats, the EK 14.4% and one seat, and the EKRE 12.7% and one seat.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 March 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Estonia declared a state of emergency in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. All schools were closed from 16 March. In late April planned medical treatment was permitted to resume, and some other restrictions were eased in May.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>4 July 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Mart Helme was succeeded as leader of the EKRE by the his son, Minister of Finance Martin Helme.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>9 November 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Mart Helme resigned as Minister of the Interior, following an opposition motion of no confidence. He was replaced by Alar Laneman.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>20 November 2020</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Minister of Education and Research Mailis Reps resigned; in February 2021 she was formally charged with embezzlement.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>13 January 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Ratas announced his resignation amid a corruption scandal over a property development deal alleged to involve the EK Secretary-General, an adviser to EKRE Minister of Finance Martin Helme and three other people linked to the EK, allegedly in an effort to secure party funding. President Kaljulaid invited ER leader Kaja Kallas to form a new coalition government.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>26 January 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>After the ER and the EK negotiated an agreement on a `grand coalition’, with 59 seats in the State Assembly, a new Government, comprising members of the two parties as well as independents, took office. Kallas was the first woman to hold the post of Prime Minister in Estonia. New ministers included Eva-Maria Liimets and Kristjan Jaani (both independents) as, respectively, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Minister of the Interior.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>3 February 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>In response to a rapid increase in cases of COVID-19, containment measures imposed in December in the counties of northern Harju (including Tallinn) and Ida-Viru were extended nationwide. Restrictions were strengthened from 11 March, and began to ease from 26 April. Further restrictions were introduced in October 2021-January 2022.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>31 August 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Director of the Estonian National Museum and former Auditor-General Alar Karis was indirectly elected as the country’s new President after contesting two rounds of voting unopposed; Kaljulaid’s nomination as a presidential candidate had failed to receive sufficient parliamentary support. It was the first time that a candidate had run unopposed since the adoption of the Constitution in 1992. Karis took office on 11 October.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>2 November 2021</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Anneli Ott of the EK resigned from her position as Minister of Culture, citing government failures in agreeing measures to compensate for COVID-19 restrictions in the cultural sector. She was replaced by Tiit Terik.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>21 April 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Following Russia’s large-scale invasion of Ukraine on 24 February, members of Parliament in both Estonia and Latvia voted unanimously to recognize the killing of civilians by Russian forces in occupied areas of Ukraine as genocide.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>1 June 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>
        Legislation on education reform, which would, 
        <i>inter alia</i>
        , have made the Estonian language compulsory in all pre-school settings was rejected by Parliament after members of the EKRE and, most notably, the governing EK voted against the bill.
      </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>3 June 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>President Karis dismissed the seven EK members from the Government, after Kallas accused the traditionally pro-Russian party of undermining the country’s values and failing to protect Estonian independence following the Russian invasion of Ukraine.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>30 June 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Liina Kersna resigned from her position as Minister of Education and Research, after criminal proceedings were launched in relation to public procurement arrangements for rapid COVID-19 tests for schools during the surge in infections recorded in October 2021.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>14 July 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Kallas officially announced the resignation of the Government and the following day secured a parliamentary mandate for the formation of a new governing coalition to comprise the ER, Isamaa and the SDE.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>18 July 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Government under Kallas took office, which was to remain in place until the parliamentary elections scheduled to take place in March 2023.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>18 October 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>The State Assembly adopted a statement declaring Russia a `terrorist state’ (Latvia and Lithuania had approved similar resolutions earlier in the year). </chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>19 October 2022</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Keit Pentus-Rosimannus resigned as Minister of Finance to take up a position at the European Court of Auditors. She was replaced by Anneli Ackermann, also of the ER.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>5 March 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>Legislative elections took place amid a cost of living crisis, and controversy over the scale of military assistance to Ukraine, of which Estonia was strongly supportive in its conflict with Russia. The ER secured victory, with 31.2% of the votes cast and 37 seats in the State Assembly (three more than previously held), defeating the EKRE, which had emerged as the ER’s most significant rival, and which obtained 16.1% of the votes and 17 seats. The EK received 15.3% of the votes and 16 seats, and the liberal Eesti 200 (Estonia 200—formed in 2018) secured parliamentary representation for the first time, with 13.3% of the votes and 14 seats. The SDE took 9.3% of the votes and nine seats, and Isamaa 8.2% of the votes and eight seats. The rate of participation by the electorate was recorded at 63.5%.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
          <chron-entry>
               <chron-head>17 April 2023</chron-head>
               <chron-text>A new Government, comprising members of the ER, Eesti 200 and the SDE, and again led by Kallas, was sworn in.</chron-text>
          </chron-entry>
     </chron-list>
</country-survey>