<?xml version="1.0"?>
<region-overview id="CAS.RO.1092737133" iso="casee" media="ONLINE" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <p>
    This comprehensively revised online edition of Central and South-Eastern Europe (the 24th edition in print) is published in a regional context that continues to be defined by the impact of the ongoing conflict in Ukraine, following the Russian Federation’s large-scale invasion in 2022, just as the world was emerging from the COVID-19 pandemic. Countries neighbouring Ukraine, in particular Poland, and other countries of the region, notably the Czech Republic (Czechia) and the Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, have had to assimilate large numbers of Ukrainian refugees, amid a challenging economic environment with sharp increases in the costs of energy and food, driven by the impact on prices of the conflict in Ukraine. Poland, along with the Baltic states, has been one of the most v
    
    ehement supporters in the region of the imposition of strong European Union (EU) sanctions against the Russian Federation. Poland’s support for EU policy in this area has contrasted with the disputes over the application of the rule of law in that country which, as in Hungary, have remained a prominent issue in relations with the EU.
  </p>
     <p>Elsewhere in the region stability in government was an issue. In April 2023 Bulgaria held its fifth set of legislative elections in two years, although there were hopes that further pre-term polls could be avoided after a power-sharing arrangement was implemented in June. Interim Governments remained in place in Slovakia and Montenegro, with Slovakia heading to early legislative elections in September. A constitutional amendment had been approved in the legislature in January that permitted snap elections to be scheduled with the approval of three-fifths of parliamentarians, following a motion of no confidence in December 2022. Following the collapse of the Montenegrin Government in August 2022, attempts to form a new administration failed. Pre-term elections eventually took place in June 2023 and talks on the formation of a new Government were ongoing. Meanwhile, in Bosnia and Herzegovina no agreement had been reached on the formation of a Government in the Federation entity following the general election of October 2018. A new general election took place in October 2022. Governments were installed at state level and in the entity of Republika Srpska and, following the controversial intervention of the international High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina, a new Government finally took office in the Federation in May 2023. Meanwhile, tensions between Kosovo and Serbia were frequently high during 2022-23, leading to concerns of a return to the Balkan instability that had characterized previous decades.</p>
     <p>Comprehensive analysis of political and economic developments in each country of the region, in their historical and contemporary context, is complemented by a series of articles presenting in-depth analyses of various issues of significance to the region, including essays dealing with specific sub-regional questions and developments. Threats to democracy in the Baltic states, the influence of the People’s Republic of China in Central and South-Eastern Europe, divisions in Central Europe over the European Union and the conflict in Ukraine, Russia’s influence in South-Eastern Europe, and the status of modern Greece in South-Eastern Europe are discussed. The resource also presents detailed listings of research institutes engaged in the study of the region; and select bibliographies of books and periodicals.</p>
     <p>The Editors are grateful to all the contributors for their articles and help, and to the numerous governments and organizations that provided statistical and other information.</p>
</region-overview>