<?xml version="1.0"?>
<country-survey id="BG.GE" id-root="bg" iso="bg" original-filename="bgrgeog.rtf" print-style="PGWIDTH" sect-type="geography" usage="casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <country-head>Bulgaria</country-head>
     <heading>Geography</heading>
     <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE">Bulgaria</alt-heading>
     <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE">Geography</alt-heading>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Physical Features</heading>
          <p id="BG.GEOG.1">The Republic of Bulgaria lies in South-Eastern Europe, on the east of the Balkan Peninsula. The country is bordered by Romania to the north, by Serbia to the north-west and by North Macedonia to the south-west, by Greece to the south and by Türkiye (formerly known as Turkey) to the south-east. The country has an eastern coastline along the Black Sea. Its total area is 110,997 sq&#160;km (42,856 sq miles).</p>
          <p id="BG.GEOG.2">
      Central Bulgaria is traversed from west to east by the Balkan Mountains, which separate the Danubian plains in the north from the Thracian plains of Eastern Rumelia in the south-east. The Rhodope Mountains occupy south-west Bulgaria and form the borders with Greece and North Macedonia. The mountain of Musala (Riladağ, in Turkish, and also once known as Stalin Peak) is located in this range, to the south of Sofia, and is Bulgaria’s highest point, rising to 2,925&#160;
      
      m (9,596&#160;ft). The Sofia depression, in the west of the country, is hill country, separating the Balkan Mountains from the southern mountains. This area is the main centre of population and communications. The general elevation slopes down from the west towards the Black Sea, and some two-thirds of Bulgaria is less than 500&#160;m above sea level. The River Danube (Dunav) forms most of the length of Bulgaria’s northern border, with the exception of the area between the town of Silistra (where the Danube flows northwards) and the Black Sea (that is, as far east as the Dobrudzha). The fertile Bulgarian plateau, between the Danubian border and the Balkan Mountains, averages some 100&#160;km in width and is traversed by several tributaries of the Danube, the major one being the Iskur. The main rivers running south of the Balkan watershed are the Struma and the Maritsa, which flow into the Aegean Sea (part of the Mediterranean Sea). The broad Maritsa valley, which leads on to the Thracian plains, is one of the principal agricultural areas of the country.
    </p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Climate</heading>
          <p id="BG.GEOG.3">The climate is continental, with hot summers and cold winters. In the south the climate is moderated by the influence of the Mediterranean Sea, with both warmer and wetter winters. Winters on the Black Sea coast are also slightly milder, although north-easterly winds can bring very cold weather. The mean temperatures in Sofia range between 21°C (69°F) in July and −2°C (28°F) in January. Varna, on the Black Sea, has comparative mean temperatures ranging between 23°C (74°F) and 1°C (34°F). The mean annual rainfall in Sofia is 635&#160;mm (25&#160;in) and in Varna 485&#160;mm (19&#160;in).</p>
     </gen-section>
     <gen-section print-style="COLUMN" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="GEN-SECTREF">
          <heading>Population</heading>
          <p id="BG.GEOG.4">
      The Bulgars are a Finno-Ugrian people, whose ancestors crossed the Danube in the seventh century 
      <sc>ce</sc>
       and merged with the Slavonic population. In 2021, according to census results, 78.5% of the total population were ethnic Bulgarians, 7.8% ethnic Turks and 4.1% Roma. Bulgarian, the official language, is one of the Southern Slavonic tongues, and is written in the Cyrillic alphabet. According to the 2021 census, it was the mother tongue of 85.3% of the population. Minority languages include Turkish and Romani. At the 2021 census, 71.5% of the population who responded to the question on religion denomination identified themselves as Christian, with 97.0% of the total being adherents of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. There are also small communities of Protestants, Roman Catholics (including adherents of Byzantine rites) and Armenian Orthodox. At the census, 10.8% of the population described themselves as Muslims. Most of the Muslim population of Bulgaria are ethnic Turks.
    </p>
          <figure-group media="PRINT">
               <figure filename="/raidtec/esdata/EUROPA/EECIS/GRAPHICS/EPS/Bulgaria.lay" />
          </figure-group>
          <p id="BG.GEOG.5">The total population of the country, according to the census of 7 September 2021, was 6,519,789. According to official estimates, at 31 December 2022 the population numbered 6,447,710, giving a population density of 58.1 people per sq&#160;km. Sofia, the capital, which is located in the central-western part of Bulgaria, is the largest city, with a population of 1,280,334 at December 2022, according to official estimates. Other important cities include Plovdiv (321,824), in central Bulgaria, and Varna (319,900), on the Black Sea coast.</p>
     </gen-section>
</country-survey>