<?xml version="1.0"?>
<intro-survey id="SI.IS" id-root="si.is" iso="si" original-filename="svninsu.rtf" usage="ewyb"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <country-head>Slovenia</country-head>
     <is-section id="SI.IS.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
          <heading>Introductory Survey</heading>
          <is-section id="SI.IS.2" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Location, Climate, Language, Religion, Flag, Capital</heading>
               <p id="SI.IS.3">The Republic of Slovenia is situated in south-central Europe. It is bounded by Austria to the north, Hungary to the north-east, Croatia to the south and east, and Italy to the west, and it has a short western coastline on the Adriatic Sea. The climate is Alpine in the mountainous areas, Mediterranean along the coast and continental in the interior. Average temperatures range between 0°C (32°F) and 22°C (71.6°F) inland and between 2°C (35.6°F) and 24°C (75.2°F) on the coast. Average annual rainfall ranges from 800&#160;mm (31.5 ins) in the east to 3,000&#160;mm (118.1&#160;ins) in the north-west. The official language is Slovene, and, in ethnically mixed regions, also Hungarian and Italian. The majority religion in Slovenia is Roman Catholicism, although there are small communities of other Christian denominations and of Muslims. The national flag (proportions 2 by 3) consists of three horizontal stripes of white, blue and red, with a shield in the upper hoist depicting a white three-peaked mountain (Triglav), below which are two horizontal wavy blue lines and above which are three six-pointed yellow stars. The capital is Ljub­ljana.</p>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="SI.IS.4" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Contemporary Political History</heading>
               <is-section id="SI.IS.12647010421" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Historical Context</heading>
                    <p id="SI.IS.5">Following the fall of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes was proclaimed on 4 December 1918. In 1929 the name of the country was changed to Yugoslavia. Yugo­slavia collapsed under German attack in 1941, and during the Second World War (1939-45) Germany annexed lower Styria and Yugoslav Carinthia, Italy annexed Istria and the territory around Ljubljana, and Hungary occupied the plains along the Mura river in north-eastern Slovenia. Following a continuing dispute about Istria, in 1954 Italy was awarded the city of Trieste, and Yugoslavia the remainder of the territory, giving Slovenia access to the sea.</p>
                    <p id="SI.IS.6">The Slovene Liberation Front, formed in 1941, joined the communist-led all-Yugoslav Partisan Army of Josip Broz (Tito). Following the post-war proclamation of the Federal People’s Republic of Yugoslavia (from 1963 the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia), Slovenia became increasingly suspicious of Serb domination. On 27 September 1989 the Slovene Assembly voted in favour of radical constitutional amendments, confirming Slovenia’s sovereignty and its right to secede from Yugoslavia. The organization of multi-party elections was envisaged, and the establishment of opposition parties (the Zveza Komunistov Slovenije—ZKS, League of Communists of Slovenia—having hitherto been the only legal party) was formally authorized. Slovenia was warned that the amendments contravened the Federal Constitution.</p>
                    <p id="SI.IS.8">In January 1990 the Slovenian delegation withdrew from an Extraordinary Congress of the Savez Komunista Jugoslavije (SKJ—League of Communists of Yugoslavia), following the rejection of their proposals for the decentralization of the party. The ZKS suspended its links with the SKJ and changed its name to Stranka Demokratskih Promjena (SDP—Party of Democratic Reform). Meanwhile, six newly formed opposition parties formed a coalition, the Demokratična Opozicija Slovenije (DEMOS—Democratic Opposition of Slovenia). In multi-party elections, held in April, DEMOS won a majority in the republican parliament and subsequently formed a Government under Lojze Peterle, the leader of the Slovenski Krščanski Demokrati (SKD—Slovenian Christian Democrats). However, the leader of the SDP, Milan Kučan, was elected President of the State Presidency, and the SDP remained the largest single party in the legislature.</p>
                    <p id="SI.IS.9">The Slovenian legislature declared the sovereignty of the republic on 2 July 1990, and on 27 September approved an amendment to the republican Constitution, resolving that republican laws should take precedence over federal laws. Slovenia also assumed control over the local territorial defence force, bringing the republic into direct confrontation with the Serb-dominated federal army, which attempted to reassert its authority by seizing the headquarters of the republican force. Slovenian and Croatian proposals to reform Yugoslavia were rejected, and Serbia imposed economic sanctions on imports from the secessionist states. In a referendum held in Slovenia on 23 December, some 89% of those who voted (about 94% of the electorate) endorsed Slo­venian independence.</p>
                    <p id="SI.IS.10">Relations between Slovenia and the Yugoslav federal centre deteriorated further in January 1991, when Slovenia refused to disarm all paramilitary groups on its territory. The Slovenian Government approved a programme for dissociation from Yugoslavia in February. In May Slovenia declared its intention to secede before the end of June, and legislation was adopted that would enable eventual independence.</p>
               </is-section>
               <is-section id="SI.IS.12647010921" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Domestic Political Affairs</heading>
                    <p id="SI.IS.11">
          Slovenia and Croatia declared their independence from Yugoslavia on 25 June 1991. In response, federal troops were mobilized on 27 June. Sporadic fighting, including an aerial bombardment of Ljubljana airport, ensued. On 7-8 July a ceasefire agreement (including a three-month moratorium on dissociation) between Slovenia and Yugoslavia, mediated by the European Community (now the 
          <xr pageref="Y" ref="WB02047.IO.TXT">Euro­pean Union—EU</xr>
          ), ended all hostilities in Slovenia, in which 79 people had been killed. On 8 October, following the expiry of the moratorium, Slovenia proclaimed its full independence, introduced its own currency and recalled all of its citizens serving in federal institutions. All federal army units had withdrawn from Slo­venia by 26 October. A new Constitution, providing for a bicameral legislature, was promulgated on 23 December. Slovenia was recognized by the EC in January 1992, by the USA in April, and was admitted to the United Nations (UN) in May.
        </p>
                    <p id="SI.IS.12">In October 1991 the Slovenska Demokratična Zveza (SDZ—Slovenian Democratic Union), one of the larger and most influential DEMOS parties, split into two factions, both of which remained in the coalition. A liberal wing formed the Demokratska Stranka (DS—Democratic Party) under the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dmitrij Rupel, while the more conservative majority of the party’s parliamentary delegates formed the Narodna Demokratska Stranka (People’s Democratic Party). DEMOS was dissolved in December. After the Government lost a parliamentary motion of no confidence in April 1992, Peterle resigned as Prime Minister. He was replaced by Janez Drnovšek, the leader of the Liberalna Demokracija Stranka (LDS—Liberal Democratic Party) and a former President of the Yugoslav Presidency.</p>
                    <is-section id="SI.IS.13058002851" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Democratic Consolidation</heading>
                         <p id="SI.IS.13">Parliamentary and presidential elections took place on 6 December 1992. About 85% of the registered electorate participated in elections to the Državni Zbor (National Assembly). The LDS obtained 22 deputies, ahead of the SKD, with 15 seats, the Združena Lista (ZD—United List—a four-party electoral alliance), with 14 seats, and the extreme nationalist Slovenska Nacionalna stranka (SNS—Slovenian National Party), with 12 seats. In the presidential election, Kučan (standing as an inde­pendent candidate) was re-elected to what had become, under the 1991 Constitution, a largely ceremonial post, obtaining 63.9% of the votes cast. Voting was held concurrently for the 22 directly elected members of the advisory Državni Svet (National Council); its remaining 18 members were chosen by an electoral college shortly afterwards.</p>
                         <p id="SI.IS.14">In January 1993 Drnovšek formed a coalition Government, comprising members of the LDS, the SKD, the ZD (later renamed the Združena Lista Socialnih Demokratov—ZLSD—United List of Social Democrats), the Zeleni Slovenije (Greens of Slovenia) and the Socialdemokratska Stranka Slovenije (SDSS—Social Democratic Party of Slovenia). Peterle was appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs. In July the Minister of Defence and President of the SDSS, Janez Janša, was among several senior politicians implicated in a scandal involving the sale of armaments to Bosnian Muslims (Bosniaks), in contravention of a UN embargo. Janša was dismissed in March 1994. The SDSS subsequently withdrew from the Government. Meanwhile, the LDS merged with the DS and two other organizations to form a new party, the Liberalna Demokracija Slovenije (LDS—Liberal Democracy of Slovenia), led by Drnovšek. A new coalition Government was formed, again led by Drnovšek, and comprising the LDS, the SKD and the ZLSD. In September the appointment of an LDS member, Jožef Školjč, to the presidency of the National Assembly prompted Peterle’s resignation from the Government.</p>
                         <p>In January 1996 the ZLSD withdrew from the governing coalition. At elections to the National Assembly, held on 10 November, 25 LDS deputies were elected. The outgoing ruling coalition and an opposition alliance, comprising the Slovenska Ljudska Stranka (SLS—Slovenian People’s Party), the SKD and the SDSS, each subsequently held 45 seats in the chamber. A former SKD deputy who had become an independent agreed to support Drnovšek’s candidacy as Prime Minister, thereby providing the requisite majority. In February 1997 the SLS (which held 19 seats) finally agreed to join a coalition Government with the LDS and the Demokratična Stranka Upokojencev Slovenije (DeSUS), which was approved by 52 votes in the National Assembly.</p>
                         <p>A presidential election took place on 23 November 1997. Kučan won a second term of office, with 55.6% of the votes cast. His nearest rival, the President of the National Assembly, Janez Podobnik, secured 18.4% of the votes. Indirect elections to the National Council followed on 26 November.</p>
                         <p>In March 2000 it was announced that the nine ministers of the SLS were to resign from the Government, prior to that party’s merger with the SKD. Drnovšek resigned in April, after his proposed government was rejected by the National Assembly. Andrej Bajuk was endorsed as Prime Minister in May, and his Government was approved by the National Assembly in June. In July the parliamentary approval of constitutional amendments providing for the introduction of a system of proportional representation resulted in division within the reconstituted SLS-SKD. Bajuk resigned from the SLS and in August became Chairman of the breakaway Nova Slovenija-Krščanska Demokrati (N.Si—New Slo­venia-Christian Democrats). At elections to the National Assembly on 15 October, which were conducted under the new system, the LDS increased its representation to 34 seats; the SDSS won 14 seats, the ZLSD 11 seats, the SLS (which had reverted to its original designation) nine seats, and N.Si eight seats. The National Assembly re-elected Drnovšek as Prime Minister. A coalition Government comprising the LDS, the ZLSD, the SLS and DeSUS, including several prominent members of Drnovšek’s previous administrations, was approved in November.</p>
                         <p>At a second round of presidential voting on 1 December 2002 Drnovšek was elected to the presidency, with 56.5% of the votes; his challenger was Barbara Brezigar, a state prosecutor supported by the SDSS and the N.Si. Anton Rop, hitherto the LDS Minister of Finance, replaced Drnovšek as Prime Minister and formed a Government. Drnovšek was inaugurated on 22 December.</p>
                         <p>
            In April 2004 the SLS withdrew its members from the Government. Following the accession of Slovenia to the EU on 1 May (see 
            <i>Foreign Affairs</i>
            ), the first elections to the European Parliament took place on 13 June, in which 28% of the electorate participated. N.Si, the Slovenska Demokratska Stranka (SDS—Slovenian Democratic Party—formerly the SDSS) and the LDS each obtained two mandates, while the ZLSD received one seat.
          </p>
                         <p>At legislative elections on 3 October 2004, the SDS secured 29 seats in the 90-member National Assembly, defeating the ruling LDS, which obtained 23 seats. Janša was appointed Prime Minister on 9 November. The SDS reached a coalition agreement with the SLS, N.Si and DeSUS, and a new Government was approved by the National Assembly in December. In April 2005 the ZLSD was reconstituted as the Socialni Demokrati (SD—Social Democrats).</p>
                         <p>At a first round of voting in the presidential election of 21 October 2007, Peterle, who contested the election as an independent with the support of the SDS, the SLS and N.Si, won 28.7% of the votes cast, while Danilo Türk, a former UN diplomat and an independent supported by DeSUS and the SD, won 24.5%. At a second round of voting on 11 November, Türk was elected President, with 68.0% of the votes cast. He was inaugurated on 22 December.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="SI.12698630931" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Government Instability</heading>
                         <p>Prior to the elections to the National Assembly conducted on 21 September 2008, it emerged that government members, including Prime Minister Janša, had allegedly received unauthorized payments from a Finnish state-owned company, Patria, in association with a tender to supply military vehicles. The SD secured 29 seats in the chamber, narrowly defeating Janša's SDS, which won 28 seats; Zares—Socialno Liberalni (Zares, For Real—New Politics, a party established by breakaway members of the LDS) received nine seats, and DeSUS seven seats, while the SNS, an SLS-led alliance and the LDS each won five seats. The rate of voter participation was 63.1%.</p>
                         <p>On 3 November 2008 Türk nominated the President of the SD, Borut Pahor, as Prime Minister; the SD, Zares, DeSUS and the LDS subsequently reached a coalition agreement. The National Assembly approved the new Government, which included seven independent members, on 21 November. In elections to the European Parliament, held on 7 June 2009, the SDS and the SD each obtained two seats, while N.Si, the LDS and Zares each secured one. The rate of participation by the electorate was 28.3%.</p>
                         <p>In April 2010 DeSUS withdrew from the ruling coalition. The Government lost a motion of no confidence in the National Assembly in September 2011, and Pahor scheduled early legislative elections. In October several new political parties emerged, notably Pozitivna Slovenija (PS—Positive Slovenia), which was established by Zoran Janković, a businessman and former Mayor of Ljubljana, and the Državljanska Lista Gregor Virant (DLGV—Gregor Virant’s Civic List), led by a former Minister of Public Administration.</p>
                         <p>At the elections to the National Assembly, held on 4 December 2011, PS, contesting the elections as Lista Zorana Jankovića—Pozitivna Slovenija (Zoran Janković’s List—PS), secured 28.5% of the votes cast and 28 seats, followed by the SDS, with 26.2% of the votes and 26 seats, the SD, with 10.5% and 10 seats, the DLGV, with 8.4% and eight seats, DeSUS, with 7.0% and six seats, the SLS, with 6.8% and six seats, and N.Si, with 4.9% and four seats. On 25 January 2012 Janša announced that he had negotiated a new coalition agreement between his SDS, DeSUS, the SLS, the DLGV and N.Si, which together held 50 parliamentary seats. Although President Türk objected to his candidacy, owing to ongoing corruption proceedings, Janša’s nomination as Prime Minister was approved by the National Assembly on 28 January. A new coalition Government was installed in February. In September Janković and several other officials were detained over the alleged misappropriation of funds during a 2010 construction project. In January 2013 Janković was removed from the leadership of PS; Alenka Bratušek, a former Ministry of Finance official, became interim leader of the party.</p>
                         <p>Meanwhile, the first round of the presidential election took place on 11 November 2012, contested by Türk, Pahor and Milan Zver of the SDS (with the support of N.Si); Pahor secured 39.9% of the votes cast, ahead of Türk, who received 35.9%, and Zver, with 24.3%. Pahor won 67.4% in the second round of voting on 2 December, defeating Türk. Low rates of voter participation, of 48.4% in the first round and 42.4% in the second round, were recorded.</p>
                         <p>Trade unions organized mass protests in major towns against alleged government corruption and planned austerity measures, culminating, in December 2012, in violent clashes between demonstrators and police. In January 2013 the DL (as the DLGV had restyled itself) demanded Janša’s resignation, after an anti-corruption commission presented further allegations. On 23 January the DL withdrew from the Government, ending the ruling coalition’s majority in the National Assembly. In February the National Assembly adopted a motion of no confidence in Janša’s minority Government, and Bratušek was designated as the new premier. The National Assembly endorsed Bratušek’s coalition administration, comprising members of PS, the SD, the DL and DeSUS, in March. In June Janša was sentenced to two years’ imprisonment in relation to the Patria defence contract case. In November 2014 the Supreme Court upheld Janša’s sentence on appeal; however, in December he was released from prison, pending a final decision by the Constitutional Court. In April 2015 the Constitutional Court annulled the verdicts against Janša and his two co-defendants, ordering a retrial, and in September it was reported that the case had expired.</p>
                         <p>Meanwhile, Bratušek submitted her resignation as Prime Minister on 5 May 2014, shortly after losing a vote for the leadership of PS to Januković. She remained in office in an acting capacity and announced the establishment of a new political party, the Zavezništvo Alenke Bratušek (ZAB—Alenka Bratušek Alliance). Elections to the European Parliament were held on 25 May. The SDS secured three of the eight seats allocated to Slovenia, and a coalition of N.Si and the SLS won two seats. The rate of participation was 24.6%.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="SI.IS.15239568521" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Government of Prime Minister Cerar</heading>
                         <p>Elections to the National Assembly took place on 13 July 2014. The newly established Stranka Mira Cerarja (SMC—Party of Miro Cerar) obtained 34.5% of the votes cast and 36 seats. The SDS won 20.7% of the votes and 21 seats, and DeSUS 10.2% and 10 seats. Both the Združena Levica (United Left) coalition and the SD obtained 6.0% and six seats, N.Si 5.6% and five seats, and the ZAB 4.4% and four seats. A coalition Government led by the SMC and also including members of the SD and DeSUS, took office in September, with Cerar, the leader of the SMC, as Prime Minister. (In March 2015 the SMC renamed itself the Stranka Modernega Centra—Modern Centre Party.)</p>
                         <p>A presidential election took place in two rounds on 22 October and 12 November 2017. The first round of voting was contested by nine candidates, including the incumbent President, Pahor, who received 47.2% of the votes, followed by Marjan Šarec, with 24.8%. At a second round of voting, Pahor took 53.1% of the votes, and he was sworn in for a second term of office on 22 December.</p>
                         <p>In May 2017 the National Assembly adopted legislation for the construction of a second railway track between the port of Koper and the town of Divača, near the border with Italy, at an estimated cost of €1,000m. Following opposition dissent, a national referendum on the project took place in September, when 53.5% of participants voted in support of the legislation, albeit with a participation rate of 20.6%. In mid-March 2018 the Supreme Court annulled the results, citing the use of public funds to finance the government campaign. On the same day Prime Minister Cerar announced his intention to resign, and his resignation was accepted by the National Assembly on 20 March. In mid-April Pahor dissolved the National Assembly and scheduled parliamentary elections for 3 June. At a further referendum on the railway project, on 13 May, 50.1% of votes were cast against the legislation, but the rate of participation, at 15.0%, rendered the results invalid.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="SI.IS.15550140511" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Šarec’s Minority Government</heading>
                         <p>At the elections to the National Assembly on 3 June 2018, the SDS secured 24.9% of the votes cast and 25 seats. The anti-corruption party led by Šarec, Lista Marjana Šarca (LMŠ—List of Marjan Šarec), received 12.6% of the votes and 13 seats, the SD 9.9% and 10 seats, Cerar’s SMC 9.8% and 10 seats, the Levica (The Left) alliance 9.3% and nine seats, N.Si 7.2% and seven seats, the Stranka Alenke Bratušek (SAB—Party Alenka Bratušek—formerly the ZAB) 5.1% and five seats, DeSUS 4.9% and five seats, and the SNS 4.2% and four seats. Voter turnout was officially recorded at 52.6%. Although President Pahor invited Janša to form a new administration, the main parliamentary parties (apart from N.Si and the SNS) refused to enter into a coalition with the SDS.</p>
                         <p>In July 2018 Janša suspended inter-party negotiations. LMŠ leader Šarec subsequently reached an agreement with the SD, the SMC, the SAB and DeSUS on the formation of a minority government, which was also to receive the support of Levica, and in August he was confirmed as Prime Minister-designate. The new Government, which held 43 seats in the National Assembly, received parliamentary approval in September. Former premier Cerar became Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Erjavec was appointed Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence.</p>
                         <p>Elections to the European Parliament took place on 26 May 2019. A coalition of the SDS and the SLS won three seats. The SD and the LMŠ each won two seats, and N.Si won one seat. Turnout was recorded at 28.9%, compared with an EU average of 50.6%.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Janša Returns as Premier</heading>
                         <p>Šarec announced his resignation as Prime Minister in January 2020, shortly after that of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Bertoncelj, amid a dispute about health care funding. Šarec urged that early elections be held, as his minority Government had been unable to enact essential reforms to the health care sector and pensions system. However, in February President Pahor nominated Janša as the new Prime Minister, after the SMC, N.Si and DeSUS agreed to form a coalition with the SDS (which together held a narrow parliamentary majority). On 3 March the National Assembly confirmed Janša as Prime Minister-designate. The first confirmed case of COVID-19 in the country was reported on the following day, and the outgoing Government began to introduce containment measures on 7 March. Janša’s new Government was approved on 13 March. Zdravko Počivalšek, the recently elected leader of the SMC, remained in the post of Minister of Economic Development and Technology, also becoming a Deputy Prime Minister, N.Si leader Matej Tonin was appointed Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, and the new leader of DeSUS, Aleksandra Pivec, remained Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, while also becoming a deputy premier. SDS members Anže Logar and Aleš Hojs, who had previously served in Janša’s administration, were appointed, respectively, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Minister of the Interior. The lifting of pandemic-related restrictions began in mid-April, but some were reinstated in October. Anti-Government protests were held in major cities in late April (and continued weekly until October).</p>
                         <p>Meanwhile, in September 2020 Pivec resigned as President of DeSUS, following corruption allegations, and in October she resigned from the Government. She was succeeded as Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food by Jože Podgoršek of DeSUS. Erjavec was re-elected as President of DeSUS in early December. On 17 December the party withdrew from the coalition Government, citing dissatisfaction with Janša’s authoritarian policies. Amid disagreements within DeSUS about the decision to withdraw, Podgoršek remained in his ministerial post, and it was subsequently reported that he had been expelled from the party. In mid-February 2021 Janša’s Government survived a parliamentary motion of no confidence initiated by five opposition parties, which had accused him of exploiting the health crisis to undermine the rule of law. Later in that month the National Assembly approved the appointment of Janez Poklukar, hitherto the director of University Medical Centre Ljubljana, as Minister of Health. Following continued divisions within DeSUS, in March Erjavec resigned as leader and left the party. Meanwhile, dissension within the SMC also emerged, further weakening the ruling coalition. Lilijana Kozlovič of the SMC resigned as Minister of Justice in May. A mass rally was staged in Ljubljana on 28 May to demand the resignation of Janša’s Government and early elections. In June the Government ended the pandemic-related state of emergency, although some restrictions remained in place.</p>
                         <p>Meanwhile, a Waters Act approved by the National Assembly in March 2021 drew continued criticism from environmental and civil society groups, which argued that it would ease regulations on the locations of construction activities, risking adverse effects on the sources of drinking water. A referendum on the Act was organized on 11 July, at which 86.8% of votes were cast against it, with a participation rate of 46.5%.</p>
                    </is-section>
                    <is-section id="SI.IS.16523205581" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                         <heading>Recent Developments: The 2022 Legislative Elections</heading>
                         <p>
            In February 2022 Pahor scheduled legislative elections for 24 April. Meanwhile, in January Robert Golob, a businessman and former member of the SAB, who had recently been removed as head of a state-owned power company, was elected leader of the non-parliamentary Stranka Zelenih Dejanj (Green Actions Party), reconstituting it as the Gibanje Svoboda (GS—Freedom Movement). The GS unexpectedly secured a decisive victory at the elections on 24 April, obtaining 34.5% of the votes cast and 41 seats, while Janša’s SDS received 23.5% of the votes and 27 seats, N.Si 6.9% and eight seats, the SD 6.7% and seven seats, and Levica 4.5% and five seats. A voter participation rate of 71.0% (the highest level since 2000) was recorded. The SD and Levica subsequently indicated their willingness to join a government led by Golob, thereby providing him with a ruling majority, and in May 2022 he announced that a coalition agreement had been reached. Golob was confirmed as Prime Minister in a vote in the National Assembly on 25 May. His new Government was approved in June. Tanja Fajon, the leader of the SD, resigned as a Member of the European Parliament to become Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs. Levica leader Luka Mesec became
            
             Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, and Danijel Bešič Loredan of the GS was appointed as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health.
          </p>
                         <p>Meanwhile, following a progressive decline in COVID-19 cases, from February 2022 most related restrictions were abolished, and entry requirements for travellers were eased significantly; the final restrictions were removed as one of the last acts of Janša’s Government, on 30 May.</p>
                         <p>At the first round of the presidential election, contested on 23 October 2022, former Minister of Foreign Affairs Logar (standing as an independent endorsed by the SDS) won 34.0% of the votes cast, while Nataša Pirc Musar, an independent supported by several minor parties, received 26.9%. Milan Brglez of the SD, whose candidacy was endorsed by the governing GS, secured 15.5% of the ballot. In the second round of voting, on 13 November, Pirc Musar won 53.9% of the votes cast. She took office as Slovenia’s first female President on 23 December.</p>
                         <p>On 27 November 2022 a national referendum was held on three SDS motions that sought to repeal government legislation on the expansion of the cabinet to introduce three new ministries, on reforms to the governance of the state broadcaster and on reforms to social care for the elderly. All three initiatives failed to win the support of either a majority of participants or the required one-fifth of all registered voters.</p>
                         <p>In December 2022 Minister of the Interior Tatjana Bobnar, who had served as Director-General of the Slovenia National Police Force under Šarec, resigned following a dispute with Golob about her nominee for the position. Boštjan Poklukar was appointed to succeed her in February 2023. Meanwhile, three new ministries were established in January. In the ensuing government reorganization, former Prime Minister Bratušek became Minister of Infrastructure. The Minister of Health, Danijel Bešič Loredan, resigned in early July following strikes by health care workers. He was replaced by Dr Valentina Prevolnik Rupel, an independent.</p>
                         <p>From early August 2023 Slovenia was affected by severe flooding, which resulted in at least seven fatalities and caused extensive damage to homes and infrastructure across the country. There were further government changes in early October, with the departures of three GS ministers: Minister of Natural Resources and Spatial Planning Uroš Brežan, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food Irena Šinko and Minister of Public Administration Sanja Ajanović Hojnik. The SD Minister of Justice, Dominika Švarc Pipan, resigned in February 2024, amid controversy over irregularities relating to the purchase by the Ministry of Justice of an office building near Ljubljana. The crisis also resulted in the resignation of the Secretary-General of the SD, Klemen Zibert. Švarc Pipan was succeeded by Andreja Katič, also of the SD.</p>
                    </is-section>
               </is-section>
               <is-section id="SI.IS.12647011281" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
                    <heading>Foreign Affairs</heading>
                    <p>
          Accession negotiations with the EU commenced in November 1998. In November 2002 Slovenia was invited to become a full member of the 
          <xr pageref="N" ref="NATO.IO">North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)</xr>
          , and in December it was among 10 nations officially invited to join the EU (with effect from 2004). A national referendum on joining both organizations was conducted on 23 March 2003; 89.6% of voters endorsed membership of the EU, and 66.1% endorsed membership of NATO. Slovenia was admitted to NATO on 29 March 2004 . Slovenia’s accession to the EU followed on 1 May, and it joined the eurozone on 1 January 2007. In December Slovenia implemented the EU’s Schengen Agreement, which effectively removed border controls between those states subject to the agreement.
        </p>
                    <p id="SI.IS.23000">Areas of disputed border territory with Croatia, most notably the maritime boundary in the Bay of Piran in Istria, strained relations between the two countries following independence. In March 1995 Slovenia and Croatia agreed to share ownership of a nuclear power plant at Krško, Slovenia (which had been constructed by the former Yugoslav authorities to supply energy to both countries). Following the election of a new Government in Croatia in 2000, relations improved significantly. An agreement on the outstanding issues of contention between the countries, signed in July 2001, granted Slovenia access to the Adriatic Sea through the Bay of Piran. However, in August 2005 Croatia temporarily recalled its ambassador to Slovenia, in protest against Slovenia’s decision to declare a fishing zone in the disputed border region. Following the official opening of Croatia’s accession negotiations with the EU earlier in that month, Slovenia threat­ened to oppose Croatian membership. At the beginning of 2008 Croatia implemented legislation enforcing its declared fishing zone in the Adriatic Sea; Slovenia, together with Italy, opposed the measure. In March, following continued pressure from the EU, Croatia agreed to postpone implementation of the environmental fishing zone. However, in October Slovenia demanded that Croatia withdraw documentation submitted as part of its membership negotiations, which was considered to predetermine the disputed border. At an intergovernmental conference in December, a Slovenian veto prevented Croatia from making progress in 11 EU negotiating chapters.</p>
                    <p>
          In February 2009 the National Assembly ratified the protocols for Croatia’s accession to NATO. Following discussions between the Croatian Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor, and Pahor, it was finally agreed in September that Slovenia would end its obstruction of Croatia’s EU membership negotiations, and that the border dispute would be resolved by international arbitration. In November the Governments of Croatia and Slovenia signed an agreement allowing international arbitrators to delineate the joint border. A legally binding referendum on the agreement took place in June 2010, at which 51.5% of the participating electorate voted in support of the initiative. The National Assembly ratified Croatia’s EU Treaty of Accession in April 2013. In July 2015 Croatia withdrew from the process on the border dispute at the 
          <xr pageref="Y" ref="WB0231XE.IO.TXT.71">Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA)</xr>
           in The Hague, Netherlands, after evidence of unauthorized conversations between the Slovenian judge at the Court and the Slovenian government representative was released in the Croatian media. In June 2017 the PCA ruled that a `corridor’ of some 10 nautical miles, together with around 75% of the Bay of Piran, should be awarded to Slovenia, thus providing it with unhindered access to international waters. Croatia rejected the Court’s ruling. In June 2018 the Slovenian Government announced its intention to launch proceedings against Croatia at the European Court of Justice, over its failure to implement the PCA’s ruling. However, in January 2020 the Court issued a final decision that the dispute was outside its jurisdiction.
        </p>
                    <p>Meanwhile, in April 2019 Prime Minister Šarec convened an emergency session of the National Security Council, while the Ministry of Foreign Affairs summoned the Croatian ambassador, following reports in the Slovenian media that the Croatian intelligence service had operated in Slovenia. The Slovenian ambassador to Croatia was recalled for consultations in response to the dispute. Following trilateral consultations between Slovenian Minister of Foreign Affairs Logar and his Croatian and Italian counterparts in December 2020, it was agreed that Croatia and Italy would each declare an exclusive economic zone in the Adriatic Sea. In April 2021 the three foreign ministers met in the Slovenian resort of Brdo Pri Kranju, where they signed a joint statement on the protection of the northern Adriatic.</p>
                    <p>On 1 January 2023 Croatia became a member of the EU’s Schengen zone of free movement, and border restrictions along the Slovenian-Croatian border were abolished.</p>
                    <p>Following an alleged Russian nerve agent attack in the UK, in March 2018 the Slovenian Government recalled its ambassador to the Russian Federation for consultations but did not join numerous EU and other states in expelling Russian diplomats as part of consequent sanctions against Russia. The Slovenian Government strongly condemned Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 and began to supply military equipment to Ukraine soon afterwards. In response to evidence of civilian massacres by Russian forces in Ukraine, in early April Slovenia expelled 33 Russian diplomats (and other European states announced similar measures). As part of an agreement announced in late April, Slovenia was to provide Ukraine with a large number of Soviet-era tanks and receive replacement armoured vehicles from Germany. In March 2023 Prime Minister Golob visited Ukraine, where he met his Ukrainian counterpart, Denys Shmyhal, and Zelensky, and expressed Slovenia’s continued support for Ukraine in the ongoing conflict. In December Slovenia agreed to provide Ukraine with funds worth €1.5m., to help finance humanitarian de-mining operations.</p>
                    <p>Slovenia began a two-year term as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council in January 2024.</p>
               </is-section>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="SI.IS.30" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Constitution and Government</heading>
               <p id="SI.IS.31">The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was enacted on 23 December 1991. Under the terms of the Constitution, as subsequently modified, legislative power is vested in the 90-member Državni Zbor (National Assembly). Of the 90 deputies, who serve a term of four years, 88 are elected on the basis of proportional representation, and two members are representatives of the Hungarian and Italian minorities. The Državni Svet (National Council), which is elected for five years, com­prises 22 directly elected members and 18 members chosen by an electoral college to represent various interest groups; the Council’s role is mainly advisory, but it is empowered to veto decisions of the National Assembly. The Prime Minister, who is elected by the National Assembly, nominates the Government (subject to the approval of the legislature). The President of the Republic has largely ceremonial powers and is directly directly for a maximum of two five-year terms. The judicial branch of government is independent. The Supreme Court is the highest court for civil and criminal cases in the republic. For administrative purposes, Slovenia is divided into 212 municipalities, 11 of which are designated as city municipalities.</p>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="SI.IS.12647012161" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Regional and International Co-operation</heading>
               <p id="SI.IS.444444">
        Slovenia is a member of the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="EBRD.IO">European Bank for Reconstruction and Development</xr>
         and the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="CE.IO">Council of Europe</xr>
        . The country acceded to full membership of the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="WB02047.IO.TXT">European Union</xr>
         and the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="NATO.IO">North Atlantic Treaty Organization</xr>
         in 2004. Slovenia joined the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="OECD.IO">Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development</xr>
         in 2010.
      </p>
               <p>
        Slovenia became a member of the United Nations in 1992 and joined the 
        <xr pageref="Y" ref="WTO.IO">World Trade Organization</xr>
         in 1995.
      </p>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="SI.IS.34" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Economic Affairs</heading>
               <p id="SI.IS.35">
                    <!--Major source of updates are world bank and stats survey, inflation is updated from ILO; see comment for government debt in the debt para. MKA (25/04/13)-->
                    <!--All growth rates and shares in employment and GDP have been calculated from official data. CPI figures have been calculated from ILO data. Energy figures have been updated from World Bank. Trade figures are from the stats survey. MA (23 April 2014) -->
        In 2022, according to the World Bank, Slovenia’s gross national income (GNI), measured at average 2020-22 prices, was US&#160;$64,523m., equivalent to $30,600 per head (or $49,200 per head on an international purchasing-power parity basis). During 2013-22, it was estimated, the population increased at an average annual rate of 0.3%, while gross domestic product (GDP) per head increased, in real terms, by an average of 3.0% per year. According to official figures, overall GDP increased, in real terms, at an average annual rate of 2.9% in 2014-23; real GDP increased by 1.6% in 2023.
      </p>
               <p id="SI.IS.36">Agriculture (including hunting, forestry and fishing) contributed 2.1% of GDP in 2023, when the sector engaged 4.1% of the employed labour force. The principal crops are cereals (particularly maize and wheat), potatoes and fruits (especially grapes and apples). Slovenia’s forests, which cover about one-half of the country, are an important natural resource. Agricultural GDP increased at an average rate of 1.3% per year during 2014-23. The GDP of the sector declined by 0.1% in 2023.</p>
               <p id="SI.IS.37">Industry (including mining, manufacturing, construction and power) contributed 32.8% of GDP in 2023, and in that year the sector engaged 32.1% of the employed labour force. Industrial GDP increased at an average annual rate of 3.5% in 2014-23. Sectoral GDP decreased by 1.0% in 2022, but increased by 3.8% in 2023.</p>
               <p id="SI.IS.38">Mining and utilities contributed 2.9% of GDP in 2023 and the sector (excluding utilities) engaged 0.3% of the employed labour force in that year. The principal activity is coal mining; lead and zinc are also extracted, together with relatively small amounts of natural gas, petroleum and salt. Slovenia also has small deposits of uranium. The combined GDP of mining and utilities decreased at an average annual rate of 0.6% in 2014-23; sectoral GDP increased by 1.9% in 2022, but decreased by 0.7% in 2023.</p>
               <p id="SI.IS.39">Manufacturing contributed 22.3% of GDP in 2023, and engaged 22.7% of the employed labour force. Manufacturing GDP increased at an average rate of 3.6% per year in 2014-23. GDP in the manufacturing sector decreased by 3.3% in 2022, but increased by 0.8% in 2023.</p>
               <p id="SI.IS.39.5">Construction contributed 7.5% of GDP, and engaged 6.8% of the employed labour force in 2023. The GDP of the sector increased at an average rate of 5.7% per year in 2024-23. The sector increased by 7.2% in 2022 and by 18.0% in 2023.</p>
               <p id="SI.IS.40">In 2022 nuclear power provided 41.2% of electricity generated, coal-fired electricity-generating stations provided 29.1%, hydroelectric power stations provided 25.0%, while solar power plants provided 4.7%. Imports of petroleum and petroleum products comprised a provisional 6.1% of the value of merchandise imports in 2023.</p>
               <!--From https://pxweb.stat.si/SiStat/en/Podrocja/Index/186/energy KuS 12 April 2023-->
               <p id="SI.IS.41">The services sector contributed 65.1% of GDP, and engaged 63.9% of the employed labour force in 2023. Tourism is a significant source of revenue. The GDP of the services sector increased at an average annual rate of 2.7% in 2014-23. Services GDP expanded by 0.9% in 2023.</p>
               <p id="SI.IS.42">In 2023 Slovenia recorded a visible merchandise trade surplus of US&#160;$503.2m., and there was a surplus of $3,056.9m. on the current account of the balance of payments. In 2023 Slovenia’s principal source of imports was Switzerland (accounting for a provisional 16.4% of the total); other major suppliers were the People’s Republic of China, Germany, Italy, Austria and Croatia. Switzerland was also the principal market for exports (taking a provisional 27.3% of the total in that year); Germany, Italy, Croatia and Austria were also significant purchasers. The major imports in 2023 were chemicals, machinery and transport equipment, basic manufactures, mineral fuels and lubricants, and miscellaneous manufactured articles. The principal exports in that year were chemicals, machinery and transport equipment, basic manufactures, miscellaneous manufactured articles and mineral fuels and lubricants.</p>
               <p id="SI.IS.43">
        According to preliminary figures, Slovenia’s overall budgetary deficit for 2023 was €2,277m., equivalent to some 4.0% of GDP. Slovenia’s general government gross debt was €41,437m. in 2022, equivalent to 72.6% of GDP. At the end of December 2023 total central government debt amounted to €39,828m. 
        <!--https://www.gov.si/en/topics/borrowing-and-state-budget-debt-management/. MKA 13 April 2021 link seems to be not working VW (26/04/2011)-->
        The annual rate of inflation averaged 2.4% in 2014-23. Consumer prices increased by 7.5% in 2023. The official rate of unemployment was 3.7% in 2023.
      </p>
               <p id="SI.IS.45">
        Slovenia adopted the euro on 1 January 2007. The budget deficit was reduced to 2.0% of GDP in 2016, in accordance with 
        <xr pageref="N" ref="WB02047.IO.TXT">European Union (EU)</xr>
         criteria (that the deficit not be permitted to exceed 3% of GDP). In response to the COVID-19 pandemic in Slovenia in early 2020, the Government adopted economic measures to mitigate the impact on workers and businesses. As a result of sharply higher expenditure and a significant decline in tax revenue, the budget deficit widened to more than 8% of GDP in that year, and real GDP contracted by 4.2%. However, growth resumed at a rate of 8.2% in 2021, and the budget deficit narrowed to 4.7% of GDP. Under Slovenia’s Recovery and Resilience Plan (RRP), the country was to receive €2,500m. in grants and loans from the EU; notably, the RRP provided for investment totalling €292m. in sustainable railway infrastructure. However, further recovery was hampered by the regional impact of the Russian Federation’s invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 and stringent EU sanctions consequently imposed against Russia. The economic priorities of the new coalition Government that took office following legislative elections in April included tackling high prices for food and energy. Real GDP grew by 2.5% in that year. In April 2023 the EU disbursed €50m. in grants, under the RRP, and in December the EU approved the disbursement of an additional €226m. in grants and €310m. in loans. Meanwhile, during July the National Assembly adopted legislation on reforms to both health insurance and social welfare, introducing new systems for health-insurance contributions and the provision of long-term care from 2024. Severe flooding in August 2023 caused damage worth an estimated 5% of GDP. The Government adopted emergency legislation to facilitate reconstruction efforts, and announced plans for the establishment of a Fund for the Reconstruction of Slovenia. The EU granted an advance payment of €100m. in aid from its Solidarity Fund in November to help the country to repair the flood damage, and pledged a further €300m. for release during 2024. Real GDP growth slowed in 2023 to a rate of 1.6%. Consumer price inflation, recorded at a rate of 8.8% in 2022, declined to 7.5% in 2023, and the budget deficit widened to an estimated 4.0% of GDP. The IMF forecast that inflation would decline to reach an average annual rate of 2.7% in 2024.
      </p>
          </is-section>
          <is-section id="SI.IS.48" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="IS-SECTREF">
               <heading>Public Holidays</heading>
               <public-holidays>
                    <holiday-year>
                         <year>2025</year>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>1-2 January</date>
                              <holiday-name>New Year</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>8 February</date>
                              <holiday-name>Prešeren Day, National Day of Culture</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>21 April</date>
                              <holiday-name>Easter Monday</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>27 April</date>
                              <holiday-name>Resistance Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>1-2 May</date>
                              <holiday-name>Labour Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>25 June</date>
                              <holiday-name>National Statehood Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>15 August</date>
                              <holiday-name>Assumption</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>31 October</date>
                              <holiday-name>Reformation Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>1 November</date>
                              <holiday-name>All Saints’ Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>25 December</date>
                              <holiday-name>Christmas Day</holiday-name>
                         </holiday>
                         <holiday>
                              <date>26 December</date>
                              <holiday-name>Independence Day</holiday-name>
                              <!--Good friday is not a holiday per https://www.gov.si/teme/drzavni-prazniki-in-dela-prosti-dnevi/ DL 18.4.23-->
                         </holiday>
                    </holiday-year>
               </public-holidays>
          </is-section>
     </is-section>
</intro-survey>