<?xml version="1.0"?>
<directory id="EE.DIR" id-root="ee" iso="ee" name-markup-type="STANDARD" original-filename="estdir.rtf" print-style="PGWIDTH" usage="ewyb casee"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
     <dir-section id="EE.DIR.1" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="ewyb casee">
          <heading>Directory</heading>
          <alt-heading type="SECTION-LONG-UPPERCASE" usage="ewyb casee">Estonia</alt-heading>
          <alt-heading type="COUNTRY-SHORT-TITLECASE" usage="Directory">Directory</alt-heading>
          <dir-sectref dir-sectiondtd="-//Semantico//DTD SGML EWYB document 1.0//EN" id="SL61860" sllink="SLSDOCRF" sllinkid="61859" slsdocid="57375" slsdocty="dir-section dir-sectiondtd"  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:pubid:EuropaWorld.com:doctypes:dita:europaworld.xsd">
               
               <dir-section id="EE.DIR.2" id-root="ee.dir" iso="ee" sect-type="constitution" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="casee">
                    <heading>The Constitution</heading>
                    <p id="EE.DIR.3">A new Constitution, based on that of 1938, was adopted by a referendum held on 28 June 1992. It took effect on 3 July. The following is a summary of its main provisions.</p>
                    <dir-section id="EE.DIR.4" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="casee">
                         <heading>Fundamental Rights, Liberties and Duties</heading>
                         <p id="EE.DIR.5">Every child with one parent who is an Estonian citizen has the right, by birth, to Estonian citizenship. Anyone who, as a minor, lost his or her Estonian citizenship has the right to have his or her citizenship restored. The rights, liberties and duties of all persons, as listed in the Constitution, are equal for Estonian citizens as well as for citizens of foreign states and stateless persons who are present in Estonia.</p>
                         <p id="EE.DIR.6">All persons are equal before the law. No one may be discriminated against on the basis of nationality, race, colour, sex, language, origin, creed, or political or other persuasions. Everyone has the right to the protection of the state and the law. Guaranteeing rights and liberties is the responsibility of the legislative, executive and judicial powers, as well as of local government. Everyone has the right to appeal to a court of law if his or her rights or liberties have been violated.</p>
                         <p id="EE.DIR.7">The state organizes vocational education and assists in finding work for persons seeking employment. Working conditions are under state supervision. Employers and employees may freely join unions and associations. Estonian citizens have the right to engage in commercial activities and to form profit-making associations. The property rights of everyone are inviolable. All persons legally present in Estonia have the right to freedom of movement and choice of abode. Everyone has the right to leave Estonia.</p>
                         <p id="EE.DIR.8">Everyone has the right to health care and to education. Education is compulsory for school-age children. Everyone has the right to instruction in Estonian.</p>
                         <p id="EE.DIR.9">The official language of state and local government authorities is Estonian. In localities where the language of the majority of the population is other than Estonian, local government authorities may use the language of the majority of the permanent residents of that locality for internal communication.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="EE.DIR.10" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="casee">
                         <heading>The People</heading>
                         <p id="EE.DIR.11">The people exercise their supreme power through citizens who have the right to vote by: i) electing the Riigikogu (State Assembly or legislature); ii) par­ticipating in referendums. The right to vote belongs to every Estonian citizen who has attained the age of 18 years.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="EE.DIR.12" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="casee">
                         <heading>The State Assembly</heading>
                         <p id="EE.DIR.13">Legislative power rests with the State Assembly. It comprises 101 members, elected every four years in free elections on the principle of proportionality. Every citizen entitled to vote who has attained 21 years of age may stand as a candidate for the State Assembly.</p>
                         <p id="EE.DIR.14">The State Assembly adopts laws and resolutions; decides on the holding of referendums; elects the President of the Republic; ratifies or rejects foreign treaties; approves the candidate for Prime Minister to form the Council of Ministers; adopts the national budget and approves the report on its execution; may declare a state of emer­gency, or, on the proposal of the President, declare a state of war, and order mobilization and demobilization.</p>
                         <p id="EE.DIR.15">The State Assembly elects from among its members a Chairman (Speaker) and two Deputy Chairmen to direct its work.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="EE.DIR.16" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="casee">
                         <heading>The President</heading>
                         <p id="EE.DIR.17">The President of the Republic is the head of state of Estonia. The President represents Estonia in international relations; appoints and recalls, on the proposal of the Government, diplomatic representatives of Estonia and accepts letters of credence of diplomatic representatives accredited to Estonia; declares regular (and early) elections to the State Assembly; initiates amendments to the Constitution; nominates the candidate for the post of Prime Minister; and is the Supreme Commander of Estonia’s armed forces.</p>
                         <p id="EE.DIR.18">The President is elected by secret ballot of the State Assembly for a term of five years. No person may be elected to the office for more than two consecutive terms. Any Estonian citizen by birth, who is at least 40 years of age, may stand as a candidate for President.</p>
                         <p id="EE.DIR.19">Should the President not be elected after three rounds of voting, the Speaker of the State Assembly convenes, within one month, an Electoral Body to elect the President.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="EE.DIR.20" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="casee">
                         <heading>The Government</heading>
                         <p id="EE.DIR.21">Executive power is held by the Government of the Republic (Council of Ministers). The Government implements national, domestic and foreign policies; directs and co-ordinates the work of government institutions; organizes the implementation of legislation, the resolutions of the State Assembly, and the edicts of the President; submits draft legislation to the State Assembly, as well as foreign treaties; prepares a draft of the national budget and presents it to the State Assembly; administers the implementation of the national budget; and organizes relations with foreign states.</p>
                         <p id="EE.DIR.22">The Government comprises the Prime Minister and Ministers. The President of the Republic nominates a candidate for Prime Minister, who is charged with forming a new government.</p>
                    </dir-section>
                    <dir-section id="EE.DIR.23" sllink="SLSDOC" slsdocrf="DIR-SECTREF" usage="casee">
                         <heading>Judicial System</heading>
                         <p id="EE.DIR.24">Justice is administered solely by the courts. They are independent in their work and administer justice in accordance with the Constitution and laws. The court system is composed of rural and city, as well as administrative, courts (first level); district courts (second level); and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Estonia (the highest court in the land).</p>
                    </dir-section>
               </dir-section>
          </dir-sectref>
          </dir-section>
     </directory>